## 6.8. Converting Legacy to the cuBLAS API


There are a few general rules that can be used to convert from legacy to the cuBLAS API:


  * Exchange the header file “cublas.h” for “cublas_v2.h”.  
  
  * Exchange the type `cublasStatus` for [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t).

  * Exchange the function `cublasSetKernelStream()` for [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream).

  * Exchange the function `cublasAlloc()` and `cublasFree()` for `cudaMalloc()` and `cudaFree()`, respectively. Notice that `cudaMalloc()` expects the size of the allocated memory to be provided in bytes (usually simply provide `n x elemSize` to allocate `n` elements, each of size `elemSize` bytes).

  * Declare the `cublasHandle_t` cuBLAS library handle.

  * Initialize the handle using [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate). Also, release the handle once finished using [cublasDestroy()](#cublasdestroy).

  * Add the handle as the first parameter to all the cuBLAS library function calls.

  * Change the scalar parameters to be passed by reference, instead of by value (usually simply adding “&” symbol in C/C++ is enough, because the parameters are passed by reference on the host by _default_). However, note that if the routine is running asynchronously, then the variable holding the scalar parameter cannot be changed until the kernels that the routine dispatches are completed. See the CUDA C++ Programming Guide for a detailed discussion of how to use streams.

  * Change the parameter characters `N` or `n` (non-transpose operation), `T` or `t` (transpose operation) and `C` or `c` (conjugate transpose operation) to `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, respectively.

  * Change the parameter characters `L` or `l` (lower part filled) and `U` or `u` (upper part filled) to `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, respectively.

  * Change the parameter characters `N` or `n` (non-unit diagonal) and `U` or `u` (unit diagonal) to `CUBLAS_DIAG_NON_UNIT` and `CUBLAS_DIAG_UNIT`, respectively.

  * Change the parameter characters `L` or `l` (left side) and `R` or `r` (right side) to `CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `CUBLAS_SIDE_RIGHT`, respectively.

  * If the legacy API function returns a scalar value, add an extra scalar parameter of the same type passed by reference, as the last parameter to the same function.

  * Instead of using `cublasGetError()`, use the return value of the function itself to check for errors.

  * Finally, please use the function prototypes in the header files `cublas.h` and `cublas_v2.h` to check the code for correctness.


