## 2.1. General Description


This section describes how to use the cuBLAS library API.


###  2.1.1. Error Status 

All cuBLAS library function calls return the error status [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t).


###  2.1.2. cuBLAS Context 

The application must initialize a handle to the cuBLAS library context by calling the [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) function. Then, the handle is explicitly passed to every subsequent library function call. Once the application finishes using the library, it must call the function [cublasDestroy()](#cublasdestroy) to release the resources associated with the cuBLAS library context.

This approach allows the user to explicitly control the library setup when using multiple host threads and multiple GPUs. For example, the application can use `cudaSetDevice()` to associate different devices with different host threads and in each of those host threads it can initialize a unique handle to the cuBLAS library context, which will use the particular device associated with that host thread. Then, the cuBLAS library function calls made with different handles will automatically dispatch the computation to different devices.

The device associated with a particular cuBLAS context is assumed to remain unchanged between the corresponding [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) and [cublasDestroy()](#cublasdestroy) calls. In order for the cuBLAS library to use a different device in the same host thread, the application must set the new device to be used by calling `cudaSetDevice()` and then create another cuBLAS context, which will be associated with the new device, by calling [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate). When multiple devices are available, applications must ensure that the device associated with a given cuBLAS context is current (e.g. by calling `cudaSetDevice()`) before invoking cuBLAS functions with this context.

A cuBLAS library context is tightly coupled with the CUDA context that is current at the time of the [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) call. An application that uses multiple CUDA contexts is required to create a cuBLAS context per CUDA context and make sure the former never outlives the latter. Starting from version 12.8, cuBLAS detects if the underlying CUDA context is tied to a graphics context and follows the shared memory size limits that are set in such case.


###  2.1.3. Thread Safety 

The library is thread safe and its functions can be called from multiple host threads, even with the same handle. When multiple threads share the same handle, extreme care needs to be taken when the handle configuration is changed because that change will affect potentially subsequent cuBLAS calls in all threads. It is even more true for the destruction of the handle. So it is not recommended that multiple thread share the same cuBLAS handle.

Additional considerations apply when the same handle is used from multiple threads with a user provided workspace. See [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace) for details.


###  2.1.4. Results Reproducibility 

By design, all cuBLAS API routines from a given toolkit version, generate the same bit-wise results at every run when executed on GPUs with the same architecture and the same number of SMs. However, bit-wise reproducibility is not guaranteed across toolkit versions because the implementation might differ due to some implementation changes.

This guarantee no longer holds when multiple CUDA streams are active or [fixed-point](#fixed-point) emulation is used. If multiple concurrent streams are active, the library may optimize total performance by picking different internal implementations.

Note

The non-deterministic behavior of multi-stream execution is due to library optimizations in selecting internal workspace for the routines running in parallel streams. To avoid this effect user can either:

  * provide a separate workspace for each used stream using the [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace) function, or

  * have one cuBLAS handle per stream, or

  * use [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) instead of GEMM-family of functions and provide user owned workspace, or

  * set a debug environment variable `CUBLAS_WORKSPACE_CONFIG` to `:16:8` (may limit overall performance) or `:4096:8` (will increase library footprint in GPU memory by approximately 24MiB).


The non-deterministic behavior of [fixed-point](#fixed-point) emulation is due to the large workspace memory requirements (see [Fixed-Point Workspace Requirements](#id2) for details). This requires dynamically allocating memory with cudaMallocAsync() and allocation failures result in fallbacks to non-emulated routines. To avoid this effect, users can provide workspace via [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace) to meet fixed-point emulation workspace requirements.

Any of those settings will allow for deterministic behavior even with multiple concurrent streams sharing a single cuBLAS handle.

This behavior is expected to change in a future release.

For some routines such as [cublas<t>symv()](#cublas-t-symv) and [cublas<t>hemv()](#cublas-t-hemv), an alternate significantly faster routine can be chosen using the routine [cublasSetAtomicsMode()](#cublassetatomicsmode). In that case, the results are not guaranteed to be bit-wise reproducible because atomics are used for the computation.


###  2.1.5. Scalar Parameters 

There are two categories of the functions that use scalar parameters :

  * Functions that take `alpha` and/or `beta` parameters by reference on the host or the device as scaling factors, such as `gemm`.

  * Functions that return a scalar result on the host or the device such as `amax()`, `amin`, `asum()`, `rotg()`, `rotmg()`, `dot()` and `nrm2()`.


For the functions of the first category, when the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, the scalar parameters `alpha` and/or `beta` can be on the stack or allocated on the heap, shouldn’t be placed in managed memory. Underneath, the CUDA kernels related to those functions will be launched with the value of `alpha` and/or `beta`. Therefore if they were allocated on the heap, they can be freed just after the return of the call even though the kernel launch is asynchronous. When the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`, `alpha` and/or `beta` must be accessible on the device and their values should not be modified until the kernel is done. Note that since `cudaFree()` does an implicit `cudaDeviceSynchronize()`, `cudaFree()` can still be called on `alpha` and/or `beta` just after the call but it would defeat the purpose of using this pointer mode in that case.

For the functions of the second category, when the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, these functions block the CPU, until the GPU has completed its computation and the results have been copied back to the Host. When the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`, these functions return immediately. In this case, similar to matrix and vector results, the scalar result is ready only when execution of the routine on the GPU has completed. This requires proper synchronization in order to read the result from the host.

In either case, the pointer mode `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` allows the library functions to execute completely asynchronously from the Host even when `alpha` and/or `beta` are generated by a previous kernel. For example, this situation can arise when iterative methods for solution of linear systems and eigenvalue problems are implemented using the cuBLAS library.


###  2.1.6. Parallelism with Streams 

If the application uses the results computed by multiple independent tasks, CUDA™ streams can be used to overlap the computation performed in these tasks.

The application can conceptually associate each stream with each task. In order to achieve the overlap of computation between the tasks, the user should create CUDA™ streams using the function `cudaStreamCreate()` and set the stream to be used by each individual cuBLAS library routine by calling [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) just before calling the actual cuBLAS routine. Note that [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) resets the user-provided workspace to the default workspace pool; see [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace). Then, the computation performed in separate streams would be overlapped automatically when possible on the GPU. This approach is especially useful when the computation performed by a single task is relatively small and is not enough to fill the GPU with work.

We recommend using the new cuBLAS API with scalar parameters and results passed by reference in the device memory to achieve maximum overlap of the computation when using streams.

A particular application of streams, batching of multiple small kernels, is described in the following section.


###  2.1.7. Batching Kernels 

In this section, we explain how to use streams to batch the execution of small kernels. For instance, suppose that we have an application where we need to make many small independent matrix-matrix multiplications with dense matrices.

It is clear that even with millions of small independent matrices we will not be able to achieve the same _GFLOPS_ rate as with a one large matrix. For example, a single \\(n \times n\\) large matrix-matrix multiplication performs \\(n^{3}\\) operations for \\(n^{2}\\) input size, while 1024 \\(\frac{n}{32} \times \frac{n}{32}\\) small matrix-matrix multiplications perform \\(1024\left( \frac{n}{32} \right)^{3} = \frac{n^{3}}{32}\\) operations for the same input size. However, it is also clear that we can achieve a significantly better performance with many small independent matrices compared with a single small matrix.

The architecture family of GPUs allows us to execute multiple kernels simultaneously. Hence, in order to batch the execution of independent kernels, we can run each of them in a separate stream. In particular, in the above example we could create 1024 CUDA™ streams using the function `cudaStreamCreate()`, then preface each call to [cublas<t>gemm()](#id8) with a call to [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) with a different stream for each of the matrix-matrix multiplications (note that [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) resets user-provided workspace to the default workspace pool, see [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace)). This will ensure that when possible the different computations will be executed concurrently. Although the user can create many streams, in practice it is not possible to have more than 32 concurrent kernels executing at the same time.


###  2.1.8. Cache Configuration 

On some devices, L1 cache and shared memory use the same hardware resources. The cache configuration can be set directly with the CUDA Runtime function cudaDeviceSetCacheConfig. The cache configuration can also be set specifically for some functions using the routine cudaFuncSetCacheConfig. Please refer to the CUDA Runtime API documentation for details about the cache configuration settings.

Because switching from one configuration to another can affect kernels concurrency, the cuBLAS Library does not set any cache configuration preference and relies on the current setting. However, some cuBLAS routines, especially Level-3 routines, rely heavily on shared memory. Thus the cache preference setting might affect adversely their performance.


###  2.1.9. Static Library Support 

The cuBLAS Library is also delivered in a static form as `libcublas_static.a` on Linux. The static cuBLAS library and all other static math libraries depend on a common thread abstraction layer library called `libculibos.a`.

For example, on Linux, to compile a small application using cuBLAS, against the dynamic library, the following command can be used:
    
    
    nvcc myCublasApp.c  -lcublas  -o myCublasApp
    

Whereas to compile against the static cuBLAS library, the following command must be used:
    
    
    nvcc myCublasApp.c  -lcublas_static   -lculibos -o myCublasApp
    

It is also possible to use the native Host C++ compiler. Depending on the Host operating system, some additional libraries like `pthread` or `dl` might be needed on the linking line. The following command on Linux is suggested :
    
    
    g++ myCublasApp.c  -lcublas_static   -lculibos -lcudart_static -lpthread -ldl -I <cuda-toolkit-path>/include -L <cuda-toolkit-path>/lib64 -o myCublasApp
    

Note that in the latter case, the library `cuda` is not needed. The CUDA Runtime will try to open explicitly the `cuda` library if needed. In the case of a system which does not have the CUDA driver installed, this allows the application to gracefully manage this issue and potentially run if a CPU-only path is available.

Starting with release 11.2, using the typed functions instead of the extension functions (cublas**Ex()) helps in reducing the binary size when linking to static cuBLAS Library.


###  2.1.10. GEMM Algorithms Numerical Behavior 

Some GEMM algorithms split the computation along the dimension K to increase the GPU occupancy, especially when the dimension K is large compared to dimensions M and N. When this type of algorithm is chosen by the cuBLAS heuristics or explicitly by the user, the results of each split is summed deterministically into the resulting matrix to get the final result.

For the routines [cublas<t>gemmEx()](#id14) and [cublasGemmEx()](#cublasgemmex), when the compute type is greater than the output type, the sum of the split chunks can potentially lead to some intermediate overflows thus producing a final resulting matrix with some overflows. Those overflows might not have occurred if all the dot products had been accumulated in the compute type before being converted at the end in the output type. This computation side-effect can be easily exposed when the computeType is `CUDA_R_32F` and Atype, Btype and Ctype are `CUDA_R_16F`. This behavior can be controlled using the compute precision mode `CUBLAS_MATH_DISALLOW_REDUCED_PRECISION_REDUCTION` with [cublasSetMathMode()](#cublassetmathmode)


###  2.1.11. Tensor Core Usage 

Tensor cores were first introduced with Volta GPUs (compute capability 7.0 and above) and significantly accelerate matrix multiplications. Starting with cuBLAS version 11.0.0, the library may automatically make use of Tensor Core capabilities wherever possible, unless they are explicitly disabled by selecting pedantic compute modes in cuBLAS (see [cublasSetMathMode()](#cublassetmathmode), [cublasMath_t](#cublasmath-t)).

It should be noted that the library will pick a Tensor Core enabled implementation wherever it determines that it would provide the best performance.

The best performance when using Tensor Cores can be achieved when the matrix dimensions and pointers meet certain memory alignment requirements. Specifically, all of the following conditions must be satisfied to get the most performance out of Tensor Cores:

  * `((op_A == CUBLAS_OP_N ? m : k) * AtypeSize) % 16 == 0`

  * `((op_B == CUBLAS_OP_N ? k : n) * BtypeSize) % 16 == 0`

  * `(m * CtypeSize) % 16 == 0`

  * `(lda * AtypeSize) % 16 == 0`

  * `(ldb * BtypeSize) % 16 == 0`

  * `(ldc * CtypeSize) % 16 == 0`

  * `intptr_t(A) % 16 == 0`

  * `intptr_t(B) % 16 == 0`

  * `intptr_t(C) % 16 == 0`


To conduct matrix multiplication with FP8 types (see [8-bit Floating Point Data Types (FP8) Usage](#bit-floating-point-data-types-fp8-usage)), you must ensure that your matrix dimensions and pointers meet the optimal requirements listed above. Aside from FP8, there are no longer any restrictions on matrix dimensions and memory alignments to use Tensor Cores (starting with cuBLAS version 11.0.0).


###  2.1.12. CUDA Graphs Support 

cuBLAS routines can be captured in CUDA Graph stream capture without restrictions in most situations.

The exception are routines that output results into host buffers (e.g. [cublas<t>dot()](#id6) while pointer mode `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST` is configured), as it enforces synchronization.

For input coefficients (such as `alpha`, `beta`) behavior depends on the pointer mode setting:

  * In the case of `CUBLAS(LT)_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, coefficient values are captured in the graph.

  * In the case of pointer modes with device pointers, coefficient value is accessed using the device pointer at the time of graph execution.


Note

When captured in CUDA Graph stream capture, cuBLAS routines can create [memory nodes](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#graph-memory-nodes) through the use of stream-ordered allocation APIs, `cudaMallocAsync` and `cudaFreeAsync`. However, as there is currently no support for memory nodes in [child graphs](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#node-types) or graphs launched [from the device](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#device-graph-launch), attempts to capture cuBLAS routines in such scenarios may fail. To avoid this issue, use the [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace) function to provide user-owned workspace memory.


###  2.1.13. 64-bit Integer Interface 

cuBLAS version 12 introduced 64-bit integer capable functions. Each 64-bit integer function is equivalent to a 32-bit integer function with the following changes:

  * The function name has `_64` suffix.

  * The dimension (problem size) data type changed from `int` to `int64_t`. Examples of dimension: `m`, `n`, and `k`.

  * The leading dimension data type changed from `int` to `int64_t`. Examples of leading dimension: `lda`, `ldb`, and `ldc`.

  * The vector increment data type changed from `int` to `int64_t`. Examples of vector increment: `incx` and `incy`.


For example, consider the following 32-bit integer functions:
    
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasSetMatrix(int rows, int cols, int elemSize, const void *A, int lda, void *B, int ldb);
    cublasStatus_t cublasIsamax(cublasHandle_t handle, int n, const float *x, int incx, int *result);
    cublasStatus_t cublasSsyr(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo, int n, const float *alpha, const float *x, int incx, float *A, int lda);
    

The equivalent 64-bit integer functions are:
    
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasSetMatrix_64(int64_t rows, int64_t cols, int64_t elemSize, const void *A, int64_t lda, void *B, int64_t ldb);
    cublasStatus_t cublasIsamax_64(cublasHandle_t handle, int64_t n, const float *x, int64_t incx, int64_t *result);
    cublasStatus_t cublasSsyr_64(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo, int64_t n, const float *alpha, const float *x, int64_t incx, float *A, int64_t lda);
    

Not every function has a 64-bit integer equivalent. For instance, [cublasSetMathMode()](#cublassetmathmode) doesn’t have any arguments that could meaningfully be `int64_t`. For documentation brevity, the 64-bit integer APIs are not explicitly listed, but only mentioned that they exist for the relevant functions.
