### 2.1.4. Results Reproducibility


By design, all cuBLAS API routines from a given toolkit version, generate the same bit-wise results at every run when executed on GPUs with the same architecture and the same number of SMs. However, bit-wise reproducibility is not guaranteed across toolkit versions because the implementation might differ due to some implementation changes.


This guarantee no longer holds when multiple CUDA streams are active or [fixed-point](#fixed-point) emulation is used. If multiple concurrent streams are active, the library may optimize total performance by picking different internal implementations.


Note

The non-deterministic behavior of multi-stream execution is due to library optimizations in selecting internal workspace for the routines running in parallel streams. To avoid this effect user can either:

  * provide a separate workspace for each used stream using the [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace) function, or

  * have one cuBLAS handle per stream, or

  * use [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) instead of GEMM-family of functions and provide user owned workspace, or

  * set a debug environment variable `CUBLAS_WORKSPACE_CONFIG` to `:16:8` (may limit overall performance) or `:4096:8` (will increase library footprint in GPU memory by approximately 24MiB).


The non-deterministic behavior of [fixed-point](#fixed-point) emulation is due to the large workspace memory requirements (see [Fixed-Point Workspace Requirements](#id2) for details). This requires dynamically allocating memory with cudaMallocAsync() and allocation failures result in fallbacks to non-emulated routines. To avoid this effect, users can provide workspace via [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace) to meet fixed-point emulation workspace requirements.


Any of those settings will allow for deterministic behavior even with multiple concurrent streams sharing a single cuBLAS handle.


This behavior is expected to change in a future release.


For some routines such as [cublas<t>symv()](#cublas-t-symv) and [cublas<t>hemv()](#cublas-t-hemv), an alternate significantly faster routine can be chosen using the routine [cublasSetAtomicsMode()](#cublassetatomicsmode). In that case, the results are not guaranteed to be bit-wise reproducible because atomics are used for the computation.
