### 2.1.5. Scalar Parameters


There are two categories of the functions that use scalar parameters :


  * Functions that take `alpha` and/or `beta` parameters by reference on the host or the device as scaling factors, such as `gemm`.

  * Functions that return a scalar result on the host or the device such as `amax()`, `amin`, `asum()`, `rotg()`, `rotmg()`, `dot()` and `nrm2()`.


For the functions of the first category, when the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, the scalar parameters `alpha` and/or `beta` can be on the stack or allocated on the heap, shouldn’t be placed in managed memory. Underneath, the CUDA kernels related to those functions will be launched with the value of `alpha` and/or `beta`. Therefore if they were allocated on the heap, they can be freed just after the return of the call even though the kernel launch is asynchronous. When the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`, `alpha` and/or `beta` must be accessible on the device and their values should not be modified until the kernel is done. Note that since `cudaFree()` does an implicit `cudaDeviceSynchronize()`, `cudaFree()` can still be called on `alpha` and/or `beta` just after the call but it would defeat the purpose of using this pointer mode in that case.


For the functions of the second category, when the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, these functions block the CPU, until the GPU has completed its computation and the results have been copied back to the Host. When the pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`, these functions return immediately. In this case, similar to matrix and vector results, the scalar result is ready only when execution of the routine on the GPU has completed. This requires proper synchronization in order to read the result from the host.


In either case, the pointer mode `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` allows the library functions to execute completely asynchronously from the Host even when `alpha` and/or `beta` are generated by a previous kernel. For example, this situation can arise when iterative methods for solution of linear systems and eigenvalue problems are implemented using the cuBLAS library.
