### 2.1.2. cuBLAS Context


The application must initialize a handle to the cuBLAS library context by calling the [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) function. Then, the handle is explicitly passed to every subsequent library function call. Once the application finishes using the library, it must call the function [cublasDestroy()](#cublasdestroy) to release the resources associated with the cuBLAS library context.


This approach allows the user to explicitly control the library setup when using multiple host threads and multiple GPUs. For example, the application can use `cudaSetDevice()` to associate different devices with different host threads and in each of those host threads it can initialize a unique handle to the cuBLAS library context, which will use the particular device associated with that host thread. Then, the cuBLAS library function calls made with different handles will automatically dispatch the computation to different devices.


The device associated with a particular cuBLAS context is assumed to remain unchanged between the corresponding [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) and [cublasDestroy()](#cublasdestroy) calls. In order for the cuBLAS library to use a different device in the same host thread, the application must set the new device to be used by calling `cudaSetDevice()` and then create another cuBLAS context, which will be associated with the new device, by calling [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate). When multiple devices are available, applications must ensure that the device associated with a given cuBLAS context is current (e.g. by calling `cudaSetDevice()`) before invoking cuBLAS functions with this context.


A cuBLAS library context is tightly coupled with the CUDA context that is current at the time of the [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) call. An application that uses multiple CUDA contexts is required to create a cuBLAS context per CUDA context and make sure the former never outlives the latter. Starting from version 12.8, cuBLAS detects if the underlying CUDA context is tied to a graphics context and follows the shared memory size limits that are set in such case.
