### 2.1.7. Batching Kernels


In this section, we explain how to use streams to batch the execution of small kernels. For instance, suppose that we have an application where we need to make many small independent matrix-matrix multiplications with dense matrices.


It is clear that even with millions of small independent matrices we will not be able to achieve the same _GFLOPS_ rate as with a one large matrix. For example, a single \\(n \times n\\) large matrix-matrix multiplication performs \\(n^{3}\\) operations for \\(n^{2}\\) input size, while 1024 \\(\frac{n}{32} \times \frac{n}{32}\\) small matrix-matrix multiplications perform \\(1024\left( \frac{n}{32} \right)^{3} = \frac{n^{3}}{32}\\) operations for the same input size. However, it is also clear that we can achieve a significantly better performance with many small independent matrices compared with a single small matrix.


The architecture family of GPUs allows us to execute multiple kernels simultaneously. Hence, in order to batch the execution of independent kernels, we can run each of them in a separate stream. In particular, in the above example we could create 1024 CUDA™ streams using the function `cudaStreamCreate()`, then preface each call to [cublas<t>gemm()](#id8) with a call to [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) with a different stream for each of the matrix-matrix multiplications (note that [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) resets user-provided workspace to the default workspace pool, see [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace)). This will ensure that when possible the different computations will be executed concurrently. Although the user can create many streams, in practice it is not possible to have more than 32 concurrent kernels executing at the same time.
