## 2.2. cuBLAS Datatypes Reference


###  2.2.1. cublasHandle_t 

The [cublasHandle_t](#cublashandle-t) type is a pointer type to an opaque structure holding the cuBLAS library context. The cuBLAS library context must be initialized using [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) and the returned handle must be passed to all subsequent library function calls. The context should be destroyed at the end using [cublasDestroy()](#cublasdestroy).


###  2.2.2. cublasStatus_t 

The type is used for function status returns. All cuBLAS library functions return their status, which can have the following values.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` |  The cuBLAS library was not initialized. This is usually caused by the lack of a prior [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) call, an error in the CUDA Runtime API called by the cuBLAS routine, or an error in the hardware setup. To correct: call [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) before the function call; and check that the hardware, an appropriate version of the driver, and the cuBLAS library are correctly installed.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ALLOC_FAILED` |  Resource allocation failed inside the cuBLAS library. This is usually caused by a `cudaMalloc()` failure. To correct: prior to the function call, deallocate previously allocated memory as much as possible.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` |  An unsupported value or parameter was passed to the function (a negative vector size, for example). To correct: ensure that all the parameters being passed have valid values.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` |  The function requires a feature absent from the device architecture; usually caused by compute capability lower than 5.0. To correct: compile and run the application on a device with appropriate compute capability.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_MAPPING_ERROR` |  An access to GPU memory space failed, which is usually caused by a failure to bind a texture. To correct: before the function call, unbind any previously bound textures.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` |  The GPU program failed to execute. This is often caused by a launch failure of the kernel on the GPU, which can be caused by multiple reasons. To correct: check that the hardware, an appropriate version of the driver, and the cuBLAS library are correctly installed.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INTERNAL_ERROR` |  An internal cuBLAS operation failed. This error is usually caused by a `cudaMemcpyAsync()` failure. To correct: check that the hardware, an appropriate version of the driver, and the cuBLAS library are correctly installed. Also, check that the memory passed as a parameter to the routine is not being deallocated prior to the routine’s completion.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The functionality requested is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_LICENSE_ERROR` | The functionality requested requires some license and an error was detected when trying to check the current licensing. This error can happen if the license is not present or is expired or if the environment variable NVIDIA_LICENSE_FILE is not set properly.


###  2.2.3. cublasOperation_t   
  
The [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t) type indicates which operation needs to be performed with the dense matrix. Its values correspond to Fortran characters `‘N’` or `‘n’` (non-transpose), `‘T’` or `‘t’` (transpose) and `‘C’` or `‘c’` (conjugate transpose) that are often used as parameters to legacy BLAS implementations.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_OP_N` | The non-transpose operation is selected.  
`CUBLAS_OP_T` | The transpose operation is selected.  
`CUBLAS_OP_C` | The conjugate transpose operation is selected.


###  2.2.4. cublasFillMode_t   
  
The type indicates which part (lower or upper) of the dense matrix was filled and consequently should be used by the function. Its values correspond to Fortran characters `L` or `l` (lower) and `U` or `u` (upper) that are often used as parameters to legacy BLAS implementations.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` | The lower part of the matrix is filled.  
`CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER` | The upper part of the matrix is filled.  
`CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_FULL` | The full matrix is filled.


###  2.2.5. cublasDiagType_t   
  
The type indicates whether the main diagonal of the dense matrix is unity and consequently should not be touched or modified by the function. Its values correspond to Fortran characters `‘N’` or `‘n’` (non-unit) and `‘U’` or `‘u’` (unit) that are often used as parameters to legacy BLAS implementations.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_DIAG_NON_UNIT` | The matrix diagonal has non-unit elements.  
`CUBLAS_DIAG_UNIT` | The matrix diagonal has unit elements.


###  2.2.6. cublasSideMode_t   
  
The type indicates whether the dense matrix is on the left or right side in the matrix equation solved by a particular function. Its values correspond to Fortran characters `‘L’` or `‘l’` (left) and `‘R’` or `‘r’` (right) that are often used as parameters to legacy BLAS implementations.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` | The matrix is on the left side in the equation.  
`CUBLAS_SIDE_RIGHT` | The matrix is on the right side in the equation.


###  2.2.7. cublasPointerMode_t   
  
The [cublasPointerMode_t](#cublaspointermode-t) type indicates whether the scalar values are passed by reference on the host or device. It is important to point out that if several scalar values are present in the function call, all of them must conform to the same single pointer mode. The pointer mode can be set and retrieved using [cublasSetPointerMode()](#cublassetpointermode) and [cublasGetPointerMode()](#cublasgetpointermode) routines, respectively.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST` | The scalars are passed by reference on the host.  
`CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` | The scalars are passed by reference on the device.


###  2.2.8. cublasAtomicsMode_t   
  
The type indicates whether cuBLAS routines which has an alternate implementation using atomics can be used. The atomics mode can be set and queried using [cublasSetAtomicsMode()](#cublassetatomicsmode) and [cublasGetAtomicsMode()](#cublasgetatomicsmode) and routines, respectively.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_ATOMICS_NOT_ALLOWED` | The usage of atomics is not allowed.  
`CUBLAS_ATOMICS_ALLOWED` | The usage of atomics is allowed.


###  2.2.9. cublasGemmAlgo_t   
  
cublasGemmAlgo_t type is an enumerant to specify the algorithm for matrix-matrix multiplication on GPU architectures up to `sm_75`. On `sm_80` and newer GPU architectures, this enumerant has no effect. cuBLAS has the following algorithm options:

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_DEFAULT` | Apply Heuristics to select the GEMM algorithm  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO0` to `CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO23` | Explicitly choose an Algorithm `0..23`. Note: Doesn’t have effect on NVIDIA Ampere architecture GPUs and newer.  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_DEFAULT_TENSOR_OP`[DEPRECATED] | This mode is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Apply Heuristics to select the GEMM algorithm, while allowing use of reduced precision CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F kernels (for backward compatibility).  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO0_TENSOR_OP` to `CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO15_TENSOR_OP`[DEPRECATED] | Those values are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Explicitly choose a Tensor core GEMM Algorithm `0..15`. Allows use of reduced precision CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F kernels (for backward compatibility). Note: Doesn’t have effect on NVIDIA Ampere architecture GPUs and newer.  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_AUTOTUNE` | [EXPERIMENTAL] The library will benchmark a number of available algorithms and choose the optimal one for the given problem configuration. Solution is cached in cublas handle so that next calls with the problem size will use the cached configuration. Note: To avoid overwriting the user’s data, the library will allocate the amount of memory corresponding to the size of the output. Note: The benchmarking is not supported during stream capture; CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED will be returned under stream capture if no configuration was found in the cache for the given problem size.


###  2.2.10. cublasMath_t   
  
[cublasMath_t](#cublasmath-t) enumerate type is used in [cublasSetMathMode()](#cublassetmathmode) to choose compute precision modes as defined in the following table. Since this setting does not directly control the use of Tensor Cores, the mode `CUBLAS_TENSOR_OP_MATH` is being deprecated, and will be removed in a future release.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_DEFAULT_MATH` | This is the default and highest-performance mode that uses compute and intermediate storage precisions with at least the same number of mantissa and exponent bits as requested. Tensor Cores will be used whenever possible.  
`CUBLAS_PEDANTIC_MATH` | This mode uses the prescribed precision and standardized arithmetic for all phases of calculations and is primarily intended for numerical robustness studies, testing, and debugging. This mode might not be as performant as the other modes.  
`CUBLAS_TF32_TENSOR_OP_MATH` | Enable acceleration of single-precision routines using TF32 tensor cores. Note that input conversions round to nearest even.  
`CUBLAS_FP32_EMULATED_BF16X9_MATH` | Enable acceleration of single-precision routines using the BF16x9 algorithm. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details. For single precision GEMM routines cuBLAS will use the `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` compute type.  
`CUBLAS_FP64_EMULATED_FIXEDPOINT_MATH` | Enable acceleration of double-precision routines using fixed-point emulation algorithms. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details.  
`CUBLAS_MATH_DISALLOW_REDUCED_PRECISION_REDUCTION` | Forces any reductions during matrix multiplications to use the accumulator type (that is, compute type) and not the output type in case of mixed precision routines where output type precision is less than the compute type precision. This is a flag that can be set (using a bitwise or operation) alongside any of the other values.  
`CUBLAS_TENSOR_OP_MATH` [DEPRECATED] | This mode is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Allows the library to use Tensor Core operations whenever possible. For single precision GEMM routines cuBLAS will use the `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` compute type.


###  2.2.11. cublasComputeType_t   
  
[cublasComputeType_t](#cublascomputetype-t) enumerate type is used in [cublasGemmEx()](#cublasgemmex) and [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) (including all batched and strided batched variants) to choose compute precision modes as defined below.

Value | Meaning  
---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F` | This is the default and highest-performance mode for 16-bit half precision floating point and all compute and intermediate storage precisions with at least 16-bit half precision. Tensor Cores will be used whenever possible.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F_PEDANTIC` | This mode uses 16-bit half precision floating point standardized arithmetic for all phases of calculations and is primarily intended for numerical robustness studies, testing, and debugging. This mode might not be as performant as the other modes since it disables use of tensor cores.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F` | This is the default 32-bit single precision floating point and uses compute and intermediate storage precisions of at least 32-bits.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_PEDANTIC` | Uses 32-bit single precision floating point arithmetic for all phases of calculations and also disables algorithmic optimizations such as Gaussian complexity reduction (3M).  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` | Allows the library to use Tensor Cores with automatic down-conversion and 16-bit half-precision compute for 32-bit input and output matrices.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16BF` | Allows the library to use Tensor Cores with automatic down-convesion and bfloat16 compute for 32-bit input and output matrices. See [Alternate Floating Point](http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#wmma-altfp) section for more details on bfloat16.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_TF32` | Allows the library to use Tensor Cores with TF32 compute for 32-bit floating point input and output matrices. Note that input conversions round to nearest even. See [Alternate Floating Point](http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#wmma-altfp) section for more details on TF32 compute.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` | Allows the library to use the BF16x9 floating point emulation algorithm for 32-bit floating point arithmetic. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F` | This is the default 64-bit double precision floating point and uses compute and intermediate storage precisions of at least 64-bits.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_EMULATED_FIXEDPOINT` | Allows the library to use fixed-point emulation algorithms for 64-bit double precision floating point arithmetic. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_PEDANTIC` | Uses 64-bit double precision floating point arithmetic for all phases of calculations and also disables algorithmic optimizations such as Gaussian complexity reduction (3M).  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` | This is the default 32-bit integer mode and uses compute and intermediate storage precisions of at least 32-bits.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` | Uses 32-bit integer arithmetic for all phases of calculations.  
  
Note

Setting the environment variable `NVIDIA_TF32_OVERRIDE = 0` will override any defaults or programmatic configuration of NVIDIA libraries, and consequently, cuBLAS will not accelerate single-precision computations with TF32 tensor cores.


###  2.2.12. cublasEmulationStrategy_t 

[cublasEmulationStrategy_t](#cublasemulationstrategy-t) enumerate type is used in [cublasSetEmulationStrategy()](#cublassetemulationstrategy) to choose how to leverage floating point emulation algorithms.

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_EMULATION_STRATEGY_DEFAULT` | This is the default emulation strategy and is equivalent to `CUBLAS_EMULATION_STRATEGY_PERFORMANT` unless the `CUBLAS_EMULATION_STRATEGY` environment variable is set.  
`CUBLAS_EMULATION_STRATEGY_PERFORMANT` | A strategy which utilizes emulation whenever it provides a performance benefit.  
`CUBLAS_EMULATION_STRATEGY_EAGER` | A strategy which utilizes emulation whenever possible.  
  
Note

In general, the [cublasSetEmulationStrategy()](#cublassetemulationstrategy) function takes precedence over the environment variable setting. However, setting the environment variable `CUBLAS_EMULATION_STRATEGY` to `performant` or `eager` will override the default emulation strategy with the corresponding emulation strategy, even if the default strategy was set by the function call.
