### 2.2.11. cublasComputeType_t


[cublasComputeType_t](#cublascomputetype-t) enumerate type is used in [cublasGemmEx()](#cublasgemmex) and [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) (including all batched and strided batched variants) to choose compute precision modes as defined below.


Value | Meaning  
---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F` | This is the default and highest-performance mode for 16-bit half precision floating point and all compute and intermediate storage precisions with at least 16-bit half precision. Tensor Cores will be used whenever possible.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F_PEDANTIC` | This mode uses 16-bit half precision floating point standardized arithmetic for all phases of calculations and is primarily intended for numerical robustness studies, testing, and debugging. This mode might not be as performant as the other modes since it disables use of tensor cores.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F` | This is the default 32-bit single precision floating point and uses compute and intermediate storage precisions of at least 32-bits.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_PEDANTIC` | Uses 32-bit single precision floating point arithmetic for all phases of calculations and also disables algorithmic optimizations such as Gaussian complexity reduction (3M).  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` | Allows the library to use Tensor Cores with automatic down-conversion and 16-bit half-precision compute for 32-bit input and output matrices.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16BF` | Allows the library to use Tensor Cores with automatic down-convesion and bfloat16 compute for 32-bit input and output matrices. See [Alternate Floating Point](http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#wmma-altfp) section for more details on bfloat16.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_TF32` | Allows the library to use Tensor Cores with TF32 compute for 32-bit floating point input and output matrices. Note that input conversions round to nearest even. See [Alternate Floating Point](http://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#wmma-altfp) section for more details on TF32 compute.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` | Allows the library to use the BF16x9 floating point emulation algorithm for 32-bit floating point arithmetic. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F` | This is the default 64-bit double precision floating point and uses compute and intermediate storage precisions of at least 64-bits.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_EMULATED_FIXEDPOINT` | Allows the library to use fixed-point emulation algorithms for 64-bit double precision floating point arithmetic. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_PEDANTIC` | Uses 64-bit double precision floating point arithmetic for all phases of calculations and also disables algorithmic optimizations such as Gaussian complexity reduction (3M).  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` | This is the default 32-bit integer mode and uses compute and intermediate storage precisions of at least 32-bits.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` | Uses 32-bit integer arithmetic for all phases of calculations.


Note  
  
Setting the environment variable `NVIDIA_TF32_OVERRIDE = 0` will override any defaults or programmatic configuration of NVIDIA libraries, and consequently, cuBLAS will not accelerate single-precision computations with TF32 tensor cores.
