### 2.2.2. cublasStatus_t


The type is used for function status returns. All cuBLAS library functions return their status, which can have the following values.


Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` |  The cuBLAS library was not initialized. This is usually caused by the lack of a prior [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) call, an error in the CUDA Runtime API called by the cuBLAS routine, or an error in the hardware setup. To correct: call [cublasCreate()](#cublascreate) before the function call; and check that the hardware, an appropriate version of the driver, and the cuBLAS library are correctly installed.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ALLOC_FAILED` |  Resource allocation failed inside the cuBLAS library. This is usually caused by a `cudaMalloc()` failure. To correct: prior to the function call, deallocate previously allocated memory as much as possible.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` |  An unsupported value or parameter was passed to the function (a negative vector size, for example). To correct: ensure that all the parameters being passed have valid values.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` |  The function requires a feature absent from the device architecture; usually caused by compute capability lower than 5.0. To correct: compile and run the application on a device with appropriate compute capability.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_MAPPING_ERROR` |  An access to GPU memory space failed, which is usually caused by a failure to bind a texture. To correct: before the function call, unbind any previously bound textures.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` |  The GPU program failed to execute. This is often caused by a launch failure of the kernel on the GPU, which can be caused by multiple reasons. To correct: check that the hardware, an appropriate version of the driver, and the cuBLAS library are correctly installed.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INTERNAL_ERROR` |  An internal cuBLAS operation failed. This error is usually caused by a `cudaMemcpyAsync()` failure. To correct: check that the hardware, an appropriate version of the driver, and the cuBLAS library are correctly installed. Also, check that the memory passed as a parameter to the routine is not being deallocated prior to the routine’s completion.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The functionality requested is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_LICENSE_ERROR` | The functionality requested requires some license and an error was detected when trying to check the current licensing. This error can happen if the license is not present or is expired or if the environment variable NVIDIA_LICENSE_FILE is not set properly.
