### 2.2.10. cublasMath_t


[cublasMath_t](#cublasmath-t) enumerate type is used in [cublasSetMathMode()](#cublassetmathmode) to choose compute precision modes as defined in the following table. Since this setting does not directly control the use of Tensor Cores, the mode `CUBLAS_TENSOR_OP_MATH` is being deprecated, and will be removed in a future release.


Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_DEFAULT_MATH` | This is the default and highest-performance mode that uses compute and intermediate storage precisions with at least the same number of mantissa and exponent bits as requested. Tensor Cores will be used whenever possible.  
`CUBLAS_PEDANTIC_MATH` | This mode uses the prescribed precision and standardized arithmetic for all phases of calculations and is primarily intended for numerical robustness studies, testing, and debugging. This mode might not be as performant as the other modes.  
`CUBLAS_TF32_TENSOR_OP_MATH` | Enable acceleration of single-precision routines using TF32 tensor cores. Note that input conversions round to nearest even.  
`CUBLAS_FP32_EMULATED_BF16X9_MATH` | Enable acceleration of single-precision routines using the BF16x9 algorithm. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details. For single precision GEMM routines cuBLAS will use the `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` compute type.  
`CUBLAS_FP64_EMULATED_FIXEDPOINT_MATH` | Enable acceleration of double-precision routines using fixed-point emulation algorithms. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) for more details.  
`CUBLAS_MATH_DISALLOW_REDUCED_PRECISION_REDUCTION` | Forces any reductions during matrix multiplications to use the accumulator type (that is, compute type) and not the output type in case of mixed precision routines where output type precision is less than the compute type precision. This is a flag that can be set (using a bitwise or operation) alongside any of the other values.  
`CUBLAS_TENSOR_OP_MATH` [DEPRECATED] | This mode is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Allows the library to use Tensor Core operations whenever possible. For single precision GEMM routines cuBLAS will use the `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` compute type.
