### 2.2.9. cublasGemmAlgo_t


cublasGemmAlgo_t type is an enumerant to specify the algorithm for matrix-matrix multiplication on GPU architectures up to `sm_75`. On `sm_80` and newer GPU architectures, this enumerant has no effect. cuBLAS has the following algorithm options:


Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_DEFAULT` | Apply Heuristics to select the GEMM algorithm  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO0` to `CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO23` | Explicitly choose an Algorithm `0..23`. Note: Doesn’t have effect on NVIDIA Ampere architecture GPUs and newer.  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_DEFAULT_TENSOR_OP`[DEPRECATED] | This mode is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Apply Heuristics to select the GEMM algorithm, while allowing use of reduced precision CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F kernels (for backward compatibility).  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO0_TENSOR_OP` to `CUBLAS_GEMM_ALGO15_TENSOR_OP`[DEPRECATED] | Those values are deprecated and will be removed in a future release. Explicitly choose a Tensor core GEMM Algorithm `0..15`. Allows use of reduced precision CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F kernels (for backward compatibility). Note: Doesn’t have effect on NVIDIA Ampere architecture GPUs and newer.  
`CUBLAS_GEMM_AUTOTUNE` | [EXPERIMENTAL] The library will benchmark a number of available algorithms and choose the optimal one for the given problem configuration. Solution is cached in cublas handle so that next calls with the problem size will use the cached configuration. Note: To avoid overwriting the user’s data, the library will allocate the amount of memory corresponding to the size of the output. Note: The benchmarking is not supported during stream capture; CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED will be returned under stream capture if no configuration was found in the cache for the given problem size.
