## 2.3. CUDA Datatypes Reference


The chapter describes types shared by multiple CUDA Libraries and defined in the header file `library_types.h`.


###  2.3.1. cudaDataType_t 

The `cudaDataType_t` type is an enumerant to specify the data precision. It is used when the data reference does not carry the type itself (e.g void *)

For example, it is used in the routine [cublasSgemmEx()](#cublas-t-gemmex).

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUDA_R_16F` | The data type is a 16-bit real half precision floating-point  
`CUDA_C_16F` | The data type is a 32-bit structure comprised of two half precision floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | The data type is a 16-bit real bfloat16 floating-point  
`CUDA_C_16BF` | The data type is a 32-bit structure comprised of two bfloat16 floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_32F` | The data type is a 32-bit real single precision floating-point  
`CUDA_C_32F` | The data type is a 64-bit structure comprised of two single precision floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_64F` | The data type is a 64-bit real double precision floating-point  
`CUDA_C_64F` | The data type is a 128-bit structure comprised of two double precision floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_8I` | The data type is a 8-bit real signed integer  
`CUDA_C_8I` | The data type is a 16-bit structure comprised of two 8-bit signed integers representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_8U` | The data type is a 8-bit real unsigned integer  
`CUDA_C_8U` | The data type is a 16-bit structure comprised of two 8-bit unsigned integers representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_32I` | The data type is a 32-bit real signed integer  
`CUDA_C_32I` | The data type is a 64-bit structure comprised of two 32-bit signed integers representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | The data type is an 8-bit real floating point in E4M3 format  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` | The data type is an 8-bit real floating point in E5M2 format  
`CUDA_R_4F_E2M1` | The data type is a 4-bit real floating point in E2M1 format


###  2.3.2. cudaEmulationStrategy_t   
  
The `cudaEmulationStrategy_t` is a parameter to specify how to leverage floating point emulation algorithms. This is equivalent to [cublasEmulationStrategy_t](#cublasemulationstrategy-t).


###  2.3.3. cudaEmulationMantissaControl_t 

The `cudaEmulationMantissaControl_t` is an enumerated type to specify how to configure how the number of mantissa bits are calculated in floating point emulation algorithms. See See [cublasSetFixedPointEmulationMantissaControl()](#cublassetfixedpointemulationmantissacontrol) and [cublasGetFixedPointEmulationMaxMantissaBitCount()](#cublasgetfixedpointemulationmaxmantissabitcount).

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUDA_EMULATION_MANTISSA_CONTROL_DYNAMIC` | The number of retained mantissa bits is computed at runtime to ensure the same or better accuracy than the native floating point representation.  
`CUDA_EMULATION_MANTISSA_CONTROL_FIXED` | The number of retained mantissa bits is fixed at runtime.


###  2.3.4. cudaEmulationSpecialValuesSupport_t   
  
The `cudaEmulationSpecialValuesSupport_t` is an enumerated type to specify how to configure which floating point special values are required to be supported by floating point emulation algorithms. See [cublasSetEmulationSpecialValuesSupport()](#cublassetemulationspecialvaluessupport) and [cublasGetEmulationSpecialValuesSupport()](#cublasgetemulationspecialvaluessupport).

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUDA_EMULATION_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT_DEFAULT` | The default special value support mask which contains support for signed infinities and NaN values.  
`CUDA_EMULATION_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT_NONE` | There are no requirements for emulation algorithms to support special values.  
`CUDA_EMULATION_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT_INFINITY` | Require emulation algorithms to handle signed infinity inputs and outputs.  
`CUDA_EMULATION_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT_NAN` | Require emulation algorithms to handle NaN inputs and outputs.  
  
Note

In general, the [cublasSetEmulationSpecialValuesSupport()](#cublassetemulationspecialvaluessupport) function takes precedence over the environment variable setting. However, setting the environment variable `CUBLAS_EMULATION_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT_MASK` to a bitmask value will override the default special values support with the specified mask, even if the default was set by the function call.


###  2.3.5. libraryPropertyType_t 

The `libraryPropertyType_t` is used as a parameter to specify which property is requested when using the routine [cublasGetProperty()](#cublasgetproperty)

Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`MAJOR_VERSION` | enumerant to query the major version  
`MINOR_VERSION` | enumerant to query the minor version  
`PATCH_LEVEL` | number to identify the patch level
