### 2.3.1. cudaDataType_t


The `cudaDataType_t` type is an enumerant to specify the data precision. It is used when the data reference does not carry the type itself (e.g void *)


For example, it is used in the routine [cublasSgemmEx()](#cublas-t-gemmex).


Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUDA_R_16F` | The data type is a 16-bit real half precision floating-point  
`CUDA_C_16F` | The data type is a 32-bit structure comprised of two half precision floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | The data type is a 16-bit real bfloat16 floating-point  
`CUDA_C_16BF` | The data type is a 32-bit structure comprised of two bfloat16 floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_32F` | The data type is a 32-bit real single precision floating-point  
`CUDA_C_32F` | The data type is a 64-bit structure comprised of two single precision floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_64F` | The data type is a 64-bit real double precision floating-point  
`CUDA_C_64F` | The data type is a 128-bit structure comprised of two double precision floating-points representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_8I` | The data type is a 8-bit real signed integer  
`CUDA_C_8I` | The data type is a 16-bit structure comprised of two 8-bit signed integers representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_8U` | The data type is a 8-bit real unsigned integer  
`CUDA_C_8U` | The data type is a 16-bit structure comprised of two 8-bit unsigned integers representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_32I` | The data type is a 32-bit real signed integer  
`CUDA_C_32I` | The data type is a 64-bit structure comprised of two 32-bit signed integers representing a complex number.  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | The data type is an 8-bit real floating point in E4M3 format  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` | The data type is an 8-bit real floating point in E5M2 format  
`CUDA_R_4F_E2M1` | The data type is a 4-bit real floating point in E2M1 format
