### 2.4.8. cublasSetWorkspace()


    cublasStatus_t
    cublasSetWorkspace(cublasHandle_t handle, void *workspace, size_t workspaceSizeInBytes)
    


This function sets the cuBLAS library workspace to a user-owned device buffer, which will be used to execute all subsequent calls to the cuBLAS library functions (on the currently set stream). If the cuBLAS library workspace is not set, all kernels will use the default workspace pool allocated during the cuBLAS context creation. In particular, this routine can be used to change the workspace between kernel launches. The workspace pointer has to be aligned to at least 256 bytes, otherwise `CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` error is returned. The [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) function unconditionally resets the cuBLAS library workspace back to the default workspace pool. Calling this function, including with `workspaceSizeInBytes` equal to 0, will prevent the cuBLAS library from utilizing the default workspace. Too small value of `workspaceSizeInBytes` may cause some routines to fail with `CUBLAS_STATUS_ALLOC_FAILED` error returned or cause large regressions in performance. Workspace size equal to or larger than 16KiB is enough to prevent `CUBLAS_STATUS_ALLOC_FAILED` error, while a larger workspace can provide performance benefits for some routines.


Note  
  
If the stream set by [cublasSetStream()](#cublassetstream) is `cudaStreamPerThread` and there are multiple threads using the same cuBLAS library handle, then users must manually manage synchronization to avoid possible race conditions in the user provided workspace. Alternatively, users may rely on the default workspace pool which safely guards against race conditions.


Warning

cuBLAS functions may invoke more than one CUDA kernel, and rely on workspace being intact between the invocations. Hence, if cuBLAS handle is configured with user-provided workspace and is being used from multiple threads, it is user’s responsibility to serialize cuBLAS calls between threads, as otherwise the kernels from different cuBLAS invocations might interleave and invalidate the assumptions each of them makes regarding workspace intactness. The default workspace pool managed by cuBLAS is thread safe.


The table below shows the recommended size of user-provided workspace. This is based on the cuBLAS default workspace pool size which is GPU architecture dependent.


GPU Architecture | Recommended workspace size  
---|---  
NVIDIA Hopper Architecture (sm90) | 32 MiB  
NVIDIA Blackwell Architecture (sm10x) | 32 MiB  
NVIDIA Blackwell Architecture (sm12x) | 32 MiB  
Other | 4 MiB


Note  
  
If the cuBLAS library is configured to utilize [fixed-point](#fixed-point) emulation, which can be done by setting the corresponding math mode in [cublasSetMathMode()](#cublassetmathmode) or calling APIs with CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_EMULATED_FIXEDPOINT, it can be beneficial to provide more workspace than recommended for the GPU architecture. See [Fixed-Point Workspace Requirements](#id2) for more details.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Return Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The stream was set successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | The `workspace` pointer wasn’t aligned to at least 256 bytes
