### 2.4.38. cublasLoggerConfigure()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLoggerConfigure(
        int             logIsOn,
        int             logToStdOut,
        int             logToStdErr,
        const char*     logFileName)
    


This function configures logging during runtime. Besides this type of configuration, it is possible to configure logging with special environment variables which will be checked by libcublas:


  * `CUBLAS_LOGINFO_DBG` \- setting this environment variable to `1` means turning logging on (by default logging is off).  
  
  * `CUBLAS_LOGDEST_DBG` \- this environment variable encodes where to write the log to: `stdout`, `stderr` mean to write log messages to standard output or error streams, respectively. Other values are interpreted as file names.


**Parameters**


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
logIsOn | host | input | Turn on/off logging completely. By default is off, but is turned on by calling [cublasSetLoggerCallback()](#cublassetloggercallback) to user defined callback function.  
logToStdOut | host | input | Turn on/off logging to standard output I/O stream. By default is off.  
logToStdErr | host | input | Turn on/off logging to standard error I/O stream. By default is off.  
logFileName | host | input | Turn on/off logging to file in filesystem specified by it’s name. [cublasLoggerConfigure()](#cublasloggerconfigure) copies the content of `logFileName`. You should provide null pointer if you are not interested in this type of logging.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully
