### 2.5.10. cublas<t>rotm()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSrotm(cublasHandle_t handle, int n, float  *x, int incx,
                               float  *y, int incy, const float*  param)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDrotm(cublasHandle_t handle, int n, double *x, int incx,
                               double *y, int incy, const double* param)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function applies the modified Givens transformation


\\(H = \begin{pmatrix} h_{11} & h_{12} \\\ h_{21} & h_{22} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\)


to vectors `x` and `y`.


Hence, the result is \\(\mathbf{x}\lbrack k\rbrack = h_{11} \times \mathbf{x}\lbrack k\rbrack + h_{12} \times \mathbf{y}\lbrack j\rbrack\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\lbrack j\rbrack = h_{21} \times \mathbf{x}\lbrack k\rbrack + h_{22} \times \mathbf{y}\lbrack j\rbrack\\) where \\(k = 1 + \left( {i - 1} \right)*\text{incx}\\) and \\(j = 1 + \left( {i - 1} \right)*\text{incy}\\) . Notice that the last two equations reflect 1-based indexing used for compatibility with Fortran.


The elements , , and of matrix \\(H\\) are stored in `param[1]`, `param[2]`, `param[3]` and `param[4]`, respectively. The `flag = param[0]` defines the following predefined values for the matrix \\(H\\) entries


`flag == -1.0` | `flag == 0.0` | `flag == 1.0` | `flag == -2.0`  
---|---|---|---  
\\(\begin{pmatrix} h_{11} & h_{12} \\\ h_{21} & h_{22} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\) | \\(\begin{pmatrix} {1.0} & h_{12} \\\ h_{21} & {1.0} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\) | \\(\begin{pmatrix} h_{11} & {1.0} \\\ {- 1.0} & h_{22} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\) | \\(\begin{pmatrix} {1.0} & {0.0} \\\ {0.0} & {1.0} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\)


Notice that the values -1.0, 0.0 and 1.0 implied by the flag are not stored in param.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`n` |  | input | Number of elements in the vectors `x` and `y`.  
`x` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.  
`param` | host or device | input | <_type_ > vector of 5 elements, where `param[0]` and `param[1..4]` contain the flag and matrix \\(H\\).


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[srotm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/srotm.f), [drotm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/drotm.f)
