### 2.5.11. cublas<t>rotmg()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSrotmg(cublasHandle_t handle, float  *d1, float  *d2,
                                float  *x1, const float  *y1, float  *param)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDrotmg(cublasHandle_t handle, double *d1, double *d2,
                                double *x1, const double *y1, double *param)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function constructs the modified Givens transformation


\\(H = \begin{pmatrix} h_{11} & h_{12} \\\ h_{21} & h_{22} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\)


that zeros out the second entry of a \\(2 \times 1\\) vector \\(\left( {\sqrt{d1}*x1,\sqrt{d2}*y1} \right)^{T}\\) .


The `flag = param[0]` defines the following predefined values for the matrix \\(H\\) entries


`flag == -1.0` | `flag == 0.0` | `flag == 1.0` | `flag == -2.0`  
---|---|---|---  
\\(\begin{pmatrix} h_{11} & h_{12} \\\ h_{21} & h_{22} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\) | \\(\begin{pmatrix} {1.0} & h_{12} \\\ h_{21} & {1.0} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\) | \\(\begin{pmatrix} h_{11} & {1.0} \\\ {- 1.0} & h_{22} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\) | \\(\begin{pmatrix} {1.0} & {0.0} \\\ {0.0} & {1.0} \\\ \end{pmatrix}\\)


Notice that the values -1.0, 0.0 and 1.0 implied by the flag are not stored in param.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`d1` | host or device | in/out | <_type_ > scalar that is overwritten on exit.  
`d2` | host or device | in/out | <_type_ > scalar that is overwritten on exit.  
`x1` | host or device | in/out | <_type_ > scalar that is overwritten on exit.  
`y1` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar.  
`param` | host or device | output | <_type_ > vector of 5 elements, where `param[0]` and `param[1-4]` contain the flag and matrix \\(H\\).


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[srotmg()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/srotmg.f), [drotmg()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/drotmg.f)
