### 2.6.19. cublas<t>hpmv()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasChpmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *AP,
                               const cuComplex       *x, int incx,
                               const cuComplex       *beta,
                               cuComplex       *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZhpmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *AP,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                               cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the Hermitian packed matrix-vector multiplication


\\(\textbf{y} = \alpha A\textbf{x} + \beta\textbf{y}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) Hermitian matrix stored in packed format, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` then the elements in the lower triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+((2*n-j+1)*j)/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \geq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER` then the elements in the upper triangular part of the Hermitian matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+(j*(j+1))/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \leq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other Hermitian part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`AP` | device | input | <_type_ > array with \\(A\\) stored in packed format. The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements are assumed to be zero.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `y` does not have to be a valid input.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`, or
  * if `uplo` != `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `uplo != CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[chpmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/chpmv.f), [zhpmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zhpmv.f)
