### 2.6.5. cublas<t>spmv()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasSspmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const float  *alpha, const float  *AP,
                               const float  *x, int incx, const float  *beta,
                               float  *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDspmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const double *alpha, const double *AP,
                               const double *x, int incx, const double *beta,
                               double *y, int incy)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the symmetric packed matrix-vector multiplication


\\(\textbf{y} = \alpha A\textbf{x} + \beta\textbf{y}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) symmetric matrix stored in packed format, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` then the elements in the lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+((2*n-j+1)*j)/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \geq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER` then the elements in the upper triangular part of the symmetric matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+(j*(j+1))/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \leq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix \\(A\\) lower or upper part is stored, the other symmetric part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix \\(A\\) .  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`AP` | device | input | <_type_ > array with \\(A\\) stored in packed format.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `y` does not have to be a valid input.  
`y` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sspmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sspmv.f), [dspmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dspmv.f)
