### 2.6.16. cublas<t>trsv()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasStrsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const float           *A, int lda,
                               float           *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDtrsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const double          *A, int lda,
                               double          *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCtrsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               cuComplex       *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZtrsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function solves the triangular linear system with a single right-hand-side


\\(\text{op}(A)\textbf{x} = \textbf{b}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a triangular matrix stored in lower or upper mode with or without the main diagonal, and \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{b}\\) are vectors. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


The solution \\(\mathbf{x}\\) overwrites the right-hand-sides \\(\mathbf{b}\\) on exit.


No test for singularity or near-singularity is included in this function.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`diag` |  | input | Indicates if the elements on the main diagonal of matrix `A` are unity and should not be accessed.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x n`, with `lda >= max(1, n)`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`x` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `diag` is not one of `CUBLAS_DIAG_UNIT` and `CUBLAS_DIAG_NON_UNIT`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, n)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[strsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/strsv.f), [dtrsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dtrsv.f), [ctrsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ctrsv.f), [ztrsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ztrsv.f)
