### 2.6.14. cublas<t>tpsv()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasStpsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const float           *AP,
                               float           *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDtpsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const double          *AP,
                               double          *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCtpsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const cuComplex       *AP,
                               cuComplex       *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZtpsv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, const cuDoubleComplex *AP,
                               cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function solves the packed triangular linear system with a single right-hand-side


\\(\text{op}(A)\textbf{x} = \textbf{b}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a triangular matrix stored in packed format, and \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{b}\\) are vectors. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


The solution \\(\mathbf{x}\\) overwrites the right-hand-sides \\(\mathbf{b}\\) on exit.


No test for singularity or near-singularity is included in this function.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` then the elements in the lower triangular part of the triangular matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+((2*n-j+1)*j)/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \geq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER` then the elements in the upper triangular part of the triangular matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+(j*(j+1))/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \leq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`diag` |  | input | Indicates if the elements on the main diagonal of matrix are unity and should not be accessed.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`AP` | device | input | <_type_ > array with \\(A\\) stored in packed format.  
`x` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `diag` is not one of `CUBLAS_DIAG_UNIT` and `CUBLAS_DIAG_NON_UNIT`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[stpsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/stpsv.f), [dtpsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dtpsv.f), [ctpsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ctpsv.f), [ztpsv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ztpsv.f)
