### 2.6.1. cublas<t>gbmv()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n, int kl, int ku,
                               const float           *alpha,
                               const float           *A, int lda,
                               const float           *x, int incx,
                               const float           *beta,
                               float           *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n, int kl, int ku,
                               const double          *alpha,
                               const double          *A, int lda,
                               const double          *x, int incx,
                               const double          *beta,
                               double          *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n, int kl, int ku,
                               const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               const cuComplex       *x, int incx,
                               const cuComplex       *beta,
                               cuComplex       *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n, int kl, int ku,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                               cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the banded matrix-vector multiplication


\\(\mathbf{y} = \alpha\text{ op}(A)\mathbf{x} + \beta\mathbf{y}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a banded matrix with \\(kl\\) subdiagonals and \\(ku\\) superdiagonals, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{ op}(A) = \begin{cases} A & \text{ if trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$} \\\ A^{T} & \text{ if trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$} \\\ A^{H} & \text{ if trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$} \\\ \end{cases}\\)


The banded matrix \\(A\\) is stored column by column, with the main diagonal stored in row \\(ku + 1\\) (starting in first position), the first superdiagonal stored in row \\(ku\\) (starting in second position), the first subdiagonal stored in row \\(ku + 2\\) (starting in first position), etc. So that in general, the element \\(A\left( {i,j} \right)\\) is stored in the memory location `A(ku+1+i-j,j)` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \in \left\lbrack {\max\left( {1,j - ku} \right),\min\left( {m,j + kl} \right)} \right\rbrack\\) . Also, the elements in the array \\(A\\) that do not conceptually correspond to the elements in the banded matrix (the top left \\(ku \times ku\\) and bottom right \\(kl \times kl\\) triangles) are not referenced.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix `A`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix `A`.  
`kl` |  | input | Number of subdiagonals of matrix `A`.  
`ku` |  | input | Number of superdiagonals of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x n` with `lda >= kl + ku + 1`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `m` elements otherwise.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `y` does not have to be a valid input.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `m` elements if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `n` elements otherwise.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0`, `n < 0`, `kl < 0` or `ku < 0`, or
  * if `lda < (kl + ku + 1)`, or
  * if `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sgbmv.f), [dgbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dgbmv.f), [cgbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/cgbmv.f), [zgbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zgbmv.f)
