### 2.6.2. cublas<t>gemv()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgemv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n,
                               const float           *alpha,
                               const float           *A, int lda,
                               const float           *x, int incx,
                               const float           *beta,
                               float           *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgemv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n,
                               const double          *alpha,
                               const double          *A, int lda,
                               const double          *x, int incx,
                               const double          *beta,
                               double          *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgemv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               const cuComplex       *x, int incx,
                               const cuComplex       *beta,
                               cuComplex       *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgemv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasOperation_t trans,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                               cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the matrix-vector multiplication


\\(\textbf{y} = \alpha\text{ op}(A)\textbf{x} + \beta\textbf{y}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(m \times n\\) matrix stored in column-major format, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{ op}(A) = \begin{cases} A & \text{ if trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$} \\\ A^{T} & \text{ if trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$} \\\ A^{H} & \text{ if trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$} \\\ \end{cases}\\)


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix `A`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, m)`. Before entry, the leading `m` by `n` part of the array `A` must contain the matrix of coefficients. Unchanged on exit.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`. `lda` must be at least `max(1, m)`.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector at least `(1 + (n - 1) * abs(incx))` elements if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N` and at least `(1 + (m - 1) * abs(incx))` elements otherwise.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `y` does not have to be a valid input.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector at least `(1 + (m - 1) * abs(incy))` elements if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N` and at least `(1 + (n - 1) * abs(incy))` elements otherwise.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | The parameters `m < 0` or `n < 0`, or `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgemv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sgemv.f), [dgemv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dgemv.f), [cgemv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/cgemv.f), [zgemv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zgemv.f)
