### 2.6.17. cublas<t>hemv()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasChemv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               const cuComplex       *x, int incx,
                               const cuComplex       *beta,
                               cuComplex       *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZhemv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                               cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the Hermitian matrix-vector multiplication


\\(\textbf{y} = \alpha A\textbf{x} + \beta\textbf{y}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) Hermitian matrix stored in lower or upper mode, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars.


This function has an alternate faster implementation using atomics that can be enabled with


Please see the section on the for more details about the usage of atomics


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other Hermitian part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x n`, with `lda >= max(1, n)`. The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements are assumed to be zero.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `y` does not have to be a valid input.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`, or
  * if `uplo` != `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `uplo != CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `lda < n`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[chemv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/chemv.f), [zhemv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zhemv.f)
