### 2.6.8. cublas<t>symv()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSsymv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const float           *alpha,
                               const float           *A, int lda,
                               const float           *x, int incx, const float           *beta,
                               float           *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDsymv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const double          *alpha,
                               const double          *A, int lda,
                               const double          *x, int incx, const double          *beta,
                               double          *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCsymv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuComplex       *alpha, /* host or device pointer */
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               const cuComplex       *x, int incx, const cuComplex       *beta,
                               cuComplex       *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZsymv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx, const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                               cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the symmetric matrix-vector multiplication.


\\(\textbf{y} = \alpha A\textbf{x} + \beta\textbf{y}\\) where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) symmetric matrix stored in lower or upper mode, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars.


This function has an alternate faster implementation using atomics that can be enabled with [cublasSetAtomicsMode()](#cublassetatomicsmode).


Please see the section on the function [cublasSetAtomicsMode()](#cublassetatomicsmode) for more details about the usage of atomics.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix lower or upper part is stored, the other symmetric part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `y` does not have to be a valid input.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `lda < n`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[ssymv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ssymv.f), [dsymv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dsymv.f)
