### 2.6.18. cublas<t>hbmv()


    cublasStatus_t cublasChbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                              int n, int k, const cuComplex       *alpha,
                              const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                              const cuComplex       *x, int incx,
                              const cuComplex       *beta,
                              cuComplex       *y, int incy)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZhbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                              int n, int k, const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                              const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                              const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx,
                              const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                              cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the Hermitian banded matrix-vector multiplication


\\(\textbf{y} = \alpha A\textbf{x} + \beta\textbf{y}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) Hermitian banded matrix with \\(k\\) subdiagonals and superdiagonals, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` then the Hermitian banded matrix \\(A\\) is stored column by column, with the main diagonal of the matrix stored in row `1`, the first subdiagonal in row `2` (starting at first position), the second subdiagonal in row `3` (starting at first position), etc. So that in general, the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `A(1+i-j,j)` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \in \lbrack j,\min(m,j + k)\rbrack\\) . Also, the elements in the array `A` that do not conceptually correspond to the elements in the banded matrix (the bottom right \\(k \times k\\) triangle) are not referenced.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER` then the Hermitian banded matrix \\(A\\) is stored column by column, with the main diagonal of the matrix stored in row `k + 1`, the first superdiagonal in row `k` (starting at second position), the second superdiagonal in row `k-1` (starting at third position), etc. So that in general, the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `A(1+k+i-j,j)` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \in \lbrack\max(1,j - k),j\rbrack\\) . Also, the elements in the array `A` that do not conceptually correspond to the elements in the banded matrix (the top left \\(k \times k\\) triangle) are not referenced.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other Hermitian part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of sub- and super-diagonals of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimensions `lda x n`, with `lda >= k + 1`. The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements are assumed to be zero.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then does not have to be a valid input.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `lda < (1 + k)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[chbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/chbmv.f), [zhbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zhbmv.f)
