### 2.6.10. cublas<t>syr2()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasSsyr2(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo, int n,
                               const float           *alpha, const float           *x, int incx,
                               const float           *y, int incy, float           *A, int lda
    cublasStatus_t cublasDsyr2(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo, int n,
                               const double          *alpha, const double          *x, int incx,
                               const double          *y, int incy, double          *A, int lda
    cublasStatus_t cublasCsyr2(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo, int n,
                               const cuComplex       *alpha, const cuComplex       *x, int incx,
                               const cuComplex       *y, int incy, cuComplex       *A, int lda
    cublasStatus_t cublasZsyr2(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo, int n,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *alpha, const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy, cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the symmetric rank-2 update


\\(A = \alpha\left( {\textbf{x}\textbf{y}^{T} + \textbf{y}\textbf{x}^{T}} \right) + A\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) symmetric matrix stored in column-major format, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) is a scalar.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other symmetric part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`y` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.  
`A` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimensions `lda x n`, with `lda >= max(1,n)`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0` or `incy == 0`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `alpha` is NULL, or
  * if `lda < max(1, n)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[ssyr2()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/explore-html/db/d99/ssyr2_8f_source.html), [dsyr2()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/explore-html/de/d41/dsyr2_8f_source.html)
