### 2.6.11. cublas<t>tbmv()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasStbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, int k, const float           *A, int lda,
                               float           *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDtbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, int k, const double          *A, int lda,
                               double          *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCtbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, int k, const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               cuComplex       *x, int incx)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZtbmv(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int n, int k, const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the triangular banded matrix-vector multiplication


\\(\textbf{x} = \text{op}(A)\textbf{x}\\)


where \\(A\\) is a triangular banded matrix, and \\(\mathbf{x}\\) is a vector. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` then the triangular banded matrix \\(A\\) is stored column by column, with the main diagonal of the matrix stored in row `1`, the first subdiagonal in row `2` (starting at first position), the second subdiagonal in row `3` (starting at first position), etc. So that in general, the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `A(1+i-j,j)` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \in \lbrack j,\min(m,j + k)\rbrack\\) . Also, the elements in the array `A` that do not conceptually correspond to the elements in the banded matrix (the bottom right \\(k \times k\\) triangle) are not referenced.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER` then the triangular banded matrix \\(A\\) is stored column by column, with the main diagonal of the matrix stored in row `k + 1`, the first superdiagonal in row `k` (starting at second position), the second superdiagonal in row `k-1` (starting at third position), etc. So that in general, the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `A(1+k+i-j,j)` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \in \lbrack\max(1,j - k,j)\rbrack\\) . Also, the elements in the array `A` that do not conceptually correspond to the elements in the banded matrix (the top left \\(k \times k\\) triangle) are not referenced.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`diag` |  | input | Indicates if the elements on the main diagonal of matrix `A` are unity and should not be accessed.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of sub- and super-diagonals of matrix .  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x n`, with `lda >= k + 1`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`x` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `diag` is not one of `CUBLAS_DIAG_UNIT` and `CUBLAS_DIAG_NON_UNIT`, or
  * if `lda < (1 + k)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ALLOC_FAILED` | The allocation of internal scratch memory failed  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[stbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/stbmv.f), [dtbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dtbmv.f), [ctbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ctbmv.f), [ztbmv()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ztbmv.f)
