### 2.6.21. cublas<t>her2()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasCher2(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *x, int incx,
                               const cuComplex       *y, int incy,
                               cuComplex       *A, int lda)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZher2(cublasHandle_t handle, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int n, const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *x, int incx,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *y, int incy,
                               cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the Hermitian rank-2 update


\\(A = \alpha\textbf{x}\textbf{y}^{H} + \overset{╦ē}{\alpha}\textbf{y}\textbf{x}^{H} + A\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) Hermitian matrix stored in column-major format, \\(\mathbf{x}\\) and \\(\mathbf{y}\\) are vectors, and \\(\alpha\\) is a scalar.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other Hermitian part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of matrix `A`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`y` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.  
`A` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)`. The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements are assumed and set to zero.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0`, or
  * if `incx == 0`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, n)`, or
  * if `alpha` is NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[cher2()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/cher2.f), [zher2()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zher2.f)
