### 2.7.5. cublas<t>gemmGroupedBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgemmGroupedBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                             const cublasOperation_t transa_array[],
                                             const cublasOperation_t transb_array[],
                                             const int m_array[],
                                             const int n_array[],
                                             const int k_array[],
                                             const float  alpha_array[],
                                             const float *const  Aarray[],
                                             const int lda_array[],
                                             const float *const  Barray[],
                                             const int ldb_array[],
                                             const float  beta_array[],
                                             float *const  Carray[],
                                             const int ldc_array[],
                                             int group_count,
                                             const int group_size[])
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgemmGroupedBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                             const cublasOperation_t transa_array[],
                                             const cublasOperation_t transb_array[],
                                             const int m_array[],
                                             const int n_array[],
                                             const int k_array[],
                                             const double alpha_array[],
                                             const double *const Aarray[],
                                             const int lda_array[],
                                             const double *const Barray[],
                                             const int ldb_array[],
                                             const double beta_array[],
                                             double *const Carray[],
                                             const int ldc_array[],
                                             int group_count,
                                             const int group_size[])
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the matrix-matrix multiplication on groups of matrices. A given group is considered to be “uniform”, i.e. all instances have the same dimensions (m, n, k), leading dimensions (lda, ldb, ldc) and transpositions (transa, transb) for their respective A, B and C matrices. However, the dimensions, leading dimensions, transpositions, and scaling factors (alpha, beta) may vary between groups. The address of the input matrices and the output matrix of each instance of the batch are read from arrays of pointers passed to the function by the caller. This is functionally equivalent to the following:


    idx = 0;
    for i = 0:group_count - 1
        for j = 0:group_size[i] - 1
            gemm(transa_array[i], transb_array[i], m_array[i], n_array[i], k_array[i],
                 alpha_array[i], Aarray[idx], lda_array[i], Barray[idx], ldb_array[i],
                 beta_array[i], Carray[idx], ldc_array[i]);
            idx += 1;
        end
    end
    


where \\(\text{$\mathrm{alpha\\_array}$}\\) and \\(\text{$\mathrm{beta\\_array}$}\\) are arrays of scaling factors, and \\(\text{Aarray}\\), \\(\text{Barray}\\) and \\(\text{Carray}\\) are arrays of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format. For a given index, \\(\text{idx}\\), that is part of group \\(i\\), the dimensions are:


>   * \\(\text{op}(\text{Aarray}\lbrack\text{idx}\rbrack)\\): \\(\text{$\mathrm{m\\_array}$}\lbrack i\rbrack \times \text{$\mathrm{k\\_array}$}\lbrack i\rbrack\\)  
>   
>   * \\(\text{op}(\text{Barray}\lbrack\text{idx}\rbrack)\\): \\(\text{$\mathrm{k\\_array}$}\lbrack i\rbrack \times \text{$\mathrm{n\\_array}$}\lbrack i\rbrack\\)
> 
>   * \\(\text{Carray}\lbrack\text{idx}\rbrack\\): \\(\text{$\mathrm{m\\_array}$}\lbrack i\rbrack \times \text{$\mathrm{n\\_array}$}\lbrack i\rbrack\\)
> 
> 


Note

This API takes arrays of two different lengths. The arrays of dimensions, leading dimensions, transpositions, and scaling factors are of length `group_count` and the arrays of matrices are of length `problem_count` where \\(\text{$\mathrm{problem\\_count}$} = \sum_{i = 0}^{\text{$\mathrm{group\\_count}$} - 1} \text{$\mathrm{group\\_size}$}\lbrack i\rbrack\\)


For matrix \\(A[\text{idx}]\\) in group \\(i\\)


\\(\text{op}(A[\text{idx}]) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A[\text{idx}] & {\text{if }\textsf{$\mathrm{transa\\_array}\lbrack i\rbrack$ == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A[\text{idx}]^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{$\mathrm{transa\\_array}\lbrack i\rbrack$ == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A[\text{idx}]^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{$\mathrm{transa\\_array}\lbrack i\rbrack$ == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B[\text{idx}])\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B[\text{idx}]\\) in group \\(i\\).


Note

\\(C\lbrack\text{idx}\rbrack\\) matrices must not overlap, that is, the individual gemm operations must be computable independently; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.


On certain problem sizes, it might be advantageous to make multiple calls to [cublas<t>gemmBatched()](#id9) in different CUDA streams, rather than use this API.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning | Array Length  
---|---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context. |   
`transa_array` | host | input | Operation op(`A[idx]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose for each group. | group_count  
`transb_array` | host | input | Operation op(`B[idx]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose for each group. | group_count  
`m_array` | host | input | Array containing the number of rows of matrix op(`A[idx]`) and `C[idx]` for each group. | group_count  
`n_array` | host | input | Array containing the number of columns of op(`B[idx]`) and `C[idx]` for each group. | group_count  
`k_array` | host | input | Array containing the number of columns of op(`A[idx]`) and rows of op(`B[idx]`) for each group. | group_count  
`alpha_array` | host | input | Array containing the <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication for each group. | group_count  
`Aarray` | device | input |  Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `lda[i] x k[i]` with `lda[i] >= max(1,m[i])` if `transa[i] == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda[i] x m[i]` with `lda[i] >= max(1,k[i])` otherwise. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details. | problem_count  
`lda_array` | host | input | Array containing the leading dimensions of two-dimensional arrays used to store each matrix `A[idx]` for each group. | group_count  
`Barray` | device | input |  Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `ldb[i] x n[i]` with `ldb[i] >= max(1,k[i])` if `transb[i] == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb[i] x k[i]` with `ldb[i] >= max(1,n[i])` otherwise. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details. | problem_count  
`ldb_array` | host | input | Array containing the leading dimensions of two-dimensional arrays used to store each matrix `B[idx]` for each group. | group_count  
`beta_array` | host | input | Array containing the <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication for each group. | group_count  
`Carray` | device | in/out |  Array of pointers to <_type_ > array. It has dimensions `ldc[i] x n[i]` with `ldc[i] >= max(1,m[i])`. Matrices `C[idx]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details. | problem_count  
`ldc_array` | host | input | Array containing the leading dimensions of two-dimensional arrays used to store each matrix `C[idx]` for each group. | group_count  
`group_count` | host | input | Number of groups |   
`group_size` | host | input | Array containing the number of pointers contained in Aarray, Barray and Carray for each group. | group_count


If math mode enables fast math modes when using [cublasSgemmGroupedBatched()](#cublas-t-gemmgroupedbatched), pointers (not the pointer arrays) placed in the GPU memory must be properly aligned to avoid misaligned memory access errors. Ideally all pointers are aligned to at least 16 Bytes. Otherwise it is required that they meet the following rule:


  * if `k % 4 == 0` then ensure `intptr_t(ptr) % 16 == 0`,  
  


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `transa_array`, `transb_array`, `m_array`, `n_array`, `k_array`, `alpha_array`, `lda_array`, `ldb_array`, `beta_array`, `ldc_array`, or `group_size` are NULL, or
  * if `group_count < 0`, or
  * if `m_array[i] < 0`, `n_array[i] < 0`, `k_array[i] < 0`, `group_size[i] < 0`, or
  * if `transa_array[i]` and `transb_array[i]` are not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, or
  * if `lda_array[i] < max(1, m_array[i])` if `transa_array[i] == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda_array[i] < max(1, k_array[i])` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb_array[i] < max(1, k_array[i])` if `transb_array[i] == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb_array[i] < max(1, n_array[i])` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc_array[i] < max(1, m_array[i])`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The pointer mode is set to `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`
