### 2.7.10. cublas<t>trmm()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasStrmm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const float           *alpha,
                               const float           *A, int lda,
                               const float           *B, int ldb,
                               float                 *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDtrmm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const double          *alpha,
                               const double          *A, int lda,
                               const double          *B, int ldb,
                               double                *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCtrmm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               const cuComplex       *B, int ldb,
                               cuComplex             *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZtrmm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *B, int ldb,
                               cuDoubleComplex       *C, int ldc)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the triangular matrix-matrix multiplication


\\(C = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} {\alpha\text{op}(A)B} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_LEFT}$}} \\\ {\alpha B\text{op}(A)} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_RIGHT}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


where \\(A\\) is a triangular matrix stored in lower or upper mode with or without the main diagonal, \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are \\(m \times n\\) matrix, and \\(\alpha\\) is a scalar. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


Notice that in order to achieve better parallelism cuBLAS differs from the BLAS API only for this routine. The BLAS API assumes an in-place implementation (with results written back to B), while the cuBLAS API assumes an out-of-place implementation (with results written into C). The application can obtain the in-place functionality of BLAS in the cuBLAS API by passing the address of the matrix B in place of the matrix C. No other overlapping in the input parameters is supported.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`side` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` is on the left or right of `B`.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`diag` |  | input | Indicates if the elements on the main diagonal of matrix `A` are unity and should not be accessed.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix `B`, with matrix `A` sized accordingly.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix `B`, with matrix `A` sized accordingly.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication, if `alpha == 0` then `A` is not referenced and `B` does not have to be a valid input.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`C` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `C`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0`, `n < 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `side` is not one of `CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `CUBLAS_SIDE_RIGHT`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` if `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT`, and `lda < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` is NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[strmm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/strmm.f), [dtrmm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dtrmm.f), [ctrmm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ctrmm.f), [ztrmm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ztrmm.f)
