### 2.7.8. cublas<t>syr2k()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasSsyr2k(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasFillMode_t uplo, cublasOperation_t trans,
                                int n, int k,
                                const float           *alpha,
                                const float           *A, int lda,
                                const float           *B, int ldb,
                                const float           *beta,
                                float           *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDsyr2k(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasFillMode_t uplo, cublasOperation_t trans,
                                int n, int k,
                                const double          *alpha,
                                const double          *A, int lda,
                                const double          *B, int ldb,
                                const double          *beta,
                                double          *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCsyr2k(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasFillMode_t uplo, cublasOperation_t trans,
                                int n, int k,
                                const cuComplex       *alpha,
                                const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                                const cuComplex       *B, int ldb,
                                const cuComplex       *beta,
                                cuComplex       *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZsyr2k(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasFillMode_t uplo, cublasOperation_t trans,
                                int n, int k,
                                const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                                const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                                const cuDoubleComplex *B, int ldb,
                                const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                                cuDoubleComplex *C, int ldc)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the symmetric rank- \\(2k\\) update


\\(C = \alpha(\text{op}(A)\text{op}(B)^{T} + \text{op}(B)\text{op}(A)^{T}) + \beta C\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, \\(C\\) is a symmetric matrix stored in lower or upper mode, and \\(A\\) and \\(B\\) are matrices with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A)\\) \\(n \times k\\) and \\(\text{op}(B)\\) \\(n \times k\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\) and \\(B\\)


\\(\text{op(}A\text{) and op(}B\text{)} = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} {A\text{ and }B} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ {A^{T}\text{ and }B^{T}} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `C` lower or upper part, is stored, the other symmetric part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or transpose.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A`), op(`B`) and `C`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`A`) and op(`B`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, n)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimensions `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1, n)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1,k)` otherwise.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0`, then `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, n)`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `C`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, n)` when `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N`, and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, n)` when `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N`, and `ldb < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, n)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL, or
  * if `C` is NULL when `beta` is not zero

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[ssyr2k()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ssyr2k.f), [dsyr2k()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dsyr2k.f), [csyr2k()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/csyr2k.f), [zsyr2k()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zsyr2k.f)
