### 2.7.3. cublas<t>gemmBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasHgemmBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                      cublasOperation_t transa,
                                      cublasOperation_t transb,
                                      int m, int n, int k,
                                      const __half          *alpha,
                                      const __half          *const Aarray[], int lda,
                                      const __half          *const Barray[], int ldb,
                                      const __half          *beta,
                                      __half          *const Carray[], int ldc,
                                      int batchCount)
    cublasStatus_t cublasSgemmBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                      cublasOperation_t transa,
                                      cublasOperation_t transb,
                                      int m, int n, int k,
                                      const float           *alpha,
                                      const float           *const Aarray[], int lda,
                                      const float           *const Barray[], int ldb,
                                      const float           *beta,
                                      float           *const Carray[], int ldc,
                                      int batchCount)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgemmBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                      cublasOperation_t transa,
                                      cublasOperation_t transb,
                                      int m, int n, int k,
                                      const double          *alpha,
                                      const double          *const Aarray[], int lda,
                                      const double          *const Barray[], int ldb,
                                      const double          *beta,
                                      double          *const Carray[], int ldc,
                                      int batchCount)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgemmBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                      cublasOperation_t transa,
                                      cublasOperation_t transb,
                                      int m, int n, int k,
                                      const cuComplex       *alpha,
                                      const cuComplex       *const Aarray[], int lda,
                                      const cuComplex       *const Barray[], int ldb,
                                      const cuComplex       *beta,
                                      cuComplex       *const Carray[], int ldc,
                                      int batchCount)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgemmBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                      cublasOperation_t transa,
                                      cublasOperation_t transb,
                                      int m, int n, int k,
                                      const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                                      const cuDoubleComplex *const Aarray[], int lda,
                                      const cuDoubleComplex *const Barray[], int ldb,
                                      const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                                      cuDoubleComplex *const Carray[], int ldc,
                                      int batchCount)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the matrix-matrix multiplication of a batch of matrices. The batch is considered to be “uniform”, i.e. all instances have the same dimensions (m, n, k), leading dimensions (lda, ldb, ldc) and transpositions (transa, transb) for their respective A, B and C matrices. The address of the input matrices and the output matrix of each instance of the batch are read from arrays of pointers passed to the function by the caller.


\\(C\lbrack i\rbrack = \alpha\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack)\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack) + \beta C\lbrack i\rbrack,\text{ for i } \in \lbrack 0,batchCount - 1\rbrack\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, and \\(A\\) , \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are arrays of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) \\(m \times k\\) , \\(\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) \\(k \times n\\) and \\(C\lbrack i\rbrack\\) \\(m \times n\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B\lbrack i\rbrack\\) .


Note  
  
\\(C\lbrack i\rbrack\\) matrices must not overlap, that is, the individual gemm operations must be computable independently; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.


On certain problem sizes, it might be advantageous to make multiple calls to [cublas<t>gemm()](#id8) in different CUDA streams, rather than use this API.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`transa` |  | input | Operation op(`A[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`transb` |  | input | Operation op(`B[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A[i]`) and `C[i]`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of op(`B[i]`) and `C[i]`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of op(`A[i]`) and rows of op(`B[i]`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`Aarray` | device | input |  Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `A[i]`.  
`Barray` | device | input |  Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, k)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1,n)` otherwise. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `B[i]`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0`, `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`Carray` | device | in/out |  Array of pointers to <_type_ > array. It has dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`. Matrices `C[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `C[i]`.  
`batchCount` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in Aarray, Barray and Carray.


If math mode enables fast math modes when using [cublasSgemmBatched()](#cublas-t-gemmbatched), pointers (not the pointer arrays) placed in the GPU memory must be properly aligned to avoid misaligned memory access errors. Ideally all pointers are aligned to at least 16 Bytes. Otherwise it is recommended that they meet the following rule:


  * if `k % 4 == 0` then ensure `intptr_t(ptr) % 16 == 0`,  
  


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `transa` and `transb` are not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, k)` when `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | [cublasHgemmBatched()](#cublas-t-gemmbatched) is only supported for GPU with architecture capabilities equal or greater than 5.3
