### 2.7.6. cublas<t>symm()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasSsymm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int m, int n,
                               const float           *alpha,
                               const float           *A, int lda,
                               const float           *B, int ldb,
                               const float           *beta,
                               float           *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDsymm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int m, int n,
                               const double          *alpha,
                               const double          *A, int lda,
                               const double          *B, int ldb,
                               const double          *beta,
                               double          *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCsymm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               const cuComplex       *B, int ldb,
                               const cuComplex       *beta,
                               cuComplex       *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZsymm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *B, int ldb,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                               cuDoubleComplex *C, int ldc)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the symmetric matrix-matrix multiplication


\\(C = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} {\alpha AB + \beta C} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_LEFT}$}} \\\ {\alpha BA + \beta C} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_RIGHT}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


where \\(A\\) is a symmetric matrix stored in lower or upper mode, \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are \\(m \times n\\) matrices, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`side` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` is on the left or right of `B`.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other symmetric part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix `C` and `B`, with matrix `A` sized accordingly.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix `C` and `B`, with matrix `A` sized accordingly.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `C`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0`, or
  * if `side` is not one of `CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `CUBLAS_SIDE_RIGHT`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT`, and `lda < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL, or
  * if `C` is NULL when `beta` is not zero

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[ssymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ssymm.f), [dsymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dsymm.f), [csymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/csymm.f), [zsymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zsymm.f)
