### 2.7.1. cublas<t>gemm()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgemm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m, int n, int k,
                               const float           *alpha,
                               const float           *A, int lda,
                               const float           *B, int ldb,
                               const float           *beta,
                               float           *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgemm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m, int n, int k,
                               const double          *alpha,
                               const double          *A, int lda,
                               const double          *B, int ldb,
                               const double          *beta,
                               double          *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgemm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m, int n, int k,
                               const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               const cuComplex       *B, int ldb,
                               const cuComplex       *beta,
                               cuComplex       *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgemm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m, int n, int k,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *B, int ldb,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                               cuDoubleComplex *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasHgemm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m, int n, int k,
                               const __half *alpha,
                               const __half *A, int lda,
                               const __half *B, int ldb,
                               const __half *beta,
                               __half *C, int ldc)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the matrix-matrix multiplication


\\(C = \alpha\text{op}(A)\text{op}(B) + \beta C\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, and \\(A\\) , \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A)\\) \\(m \times k\\) , \\(\text{op}(B)\\) \\(k \times n\\) and \\(C\\) \\(m \times n\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B)\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B\\) .


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`transa` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`transb` |  | input | Operation op(`B`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A`) and `C`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`B`) and `C`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of op(`A`) and rows of op(`B`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimensions `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, k)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1,n)` otherwise.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0`, `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of a two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `C`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `transa` and `transb` are not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, k)` when `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL, or
  * if `C` is NULL when `beta` is not zero

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | In the case of [cublasHgemm()](#cublas-t-gemm) the device does not support math in half precision.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgemm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sgemm.f), [dgemm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dgemm.f), [cgemm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/cgemm.f), [zgemm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zgemm.f)
