### 2.7.11. cublas<t>trsm()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasStrsm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const float           *alpha,
                               const float           *A, int lda,
                               float           *B, int ldb)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDtrsm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const double          *alpha,
                               const double          *A, int lda,
                               double          *B, int ldb)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCtrsm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuComplex       *alpha,
                               const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                               cuComplex       *B, int ldb)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZtrsm(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasSideMode_t side, cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                               cublasOperation_t trans, cublasDiagType_t diag,
                               int m, int n,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                               const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                               cuDoubleComplex *B, int ldb)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function solves the triangular linear system with multiple right-hand-sides


\\(\left\\{ \begin{matrix} {\text{op}(A)X = \alpha B} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_LEFT}$}} \\\ {X\text{op}(A) = \alpha B} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_RIGHT}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


where \\(A\\) is a triangular matrix stored in lower or upper mode with or without the main diagonal, \\(X\\) and \\(B\\) are \\(m \times n\\) matrices, and \\(\alpha\\) is a scalar. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


The solution \\(X\\) overwrites the right-hand-sides \\(B\\) on exit.


No test for singularity or near-singularity is included in this function.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`side` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` is on the left or right of `X`.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`diag` |  | input | Indicates if the elements on the main diagonal of matrix `A` are unity and should not be accessed.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix `B`, with matrix `A` sized accordingly.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix `B`, with matrix `A` is sized accordingly.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication, if `alpha == 0` then `A` is not referenced and `B` does not have to be a valid input.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array. It has dimensions `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0`, `n < 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `side` is not one of `CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `CUBLAS_SIDE_RIGHT`, or
  * if `diag` is not one of `CUBLAS_DIAG_UNIT` and `CUBLAS_DIAG_NON_UNIT`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` if `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT`, and `lda < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` is NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[strsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/strsm.f), [dtrsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dtrsm.f), [ctrsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ctrsm.f), [ztrsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ztrsm.f)
