### 2.7.12. cublas<t>trsmBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasStrsmBatched( cublasHandle_t    handle,
                                       cublasSideMode_t  side,
                                       cublasFillMode_t  uplo,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       cublasDiagType_t  diag,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       const float *alpha,
                                       const float *const A[],
                                       int lda,
                                       float *const B[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int batchCount);
    cublasStatus_t cublasDtrsmBatched( cublasHandle_t    handle,
                                       cublasSideMode_t  side,
                                       cublasFillMode_t  uplo,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       cublasDiagType_t  diag,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       const double *alpha,
                                       const double *const A[],
                                       int lda,
                                       double *const B[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int batchCount);
    cublasStatus_t cublasCtrsmBatched( cublasHandle_t    handle,
                                       cublasSideMode_t  side,
                                       cublasFillMode_t  uplo,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       cublasDiagType_t  diag,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       const cuComplex *alpha,
                                       const cuComplex *const A[],
                                       int lda,
                                       cuComplex *const B[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int batchCount);
    cublasStatus_t cublasZtrsmBatched( cublasHandle_t    handle,
                                       cublasSideMode_t  side,
                                       cublasFillMode_t  uplo,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       cublasDiagType_t  diag,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                                       const cuDoubleComplex *const A[],
                                       int lda,
                                       cuDoubleComplex *const B[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int batchCount);
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function solves an array of triangular linear systems with multiple right-hand-sides


\\(\left\\{ \begin{matrix} {\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack)X\lbrack i\rbrack = \alpha B\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_LEFT}$}} \\\ {X\lbrack i\rbrack\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack) = \alpha B\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_RIGHT}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


where \\(A\lbrack i\rbrack\\) is a triangular matrix stored in lower or upper mode with or without the main diagonal, \\(X\lbrack i\rbrack\\) and \\(B\lbrack i\rbrack\\) are \\(m \times n\\) matrices, and \\(\alpha\\) is a scalar. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} {A\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ {A^{T}\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ {A^{H}\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


The solution \\(X\lbrack i\rbrack\\) overwrites the right-hand-sides \\(B\lbrack i\rbrack\\) on exit.


No test for singularity or near-singularity is included in this function.


This function works for any sizes but is intended to be used for matrices of small sizes where the launch overhead is a significant factor. For bigger sizes, it might be advantageous to call `batchCount` times the regular [cublas<t>trsm()](#cublas-t-trsm) within a set of CUDA streams.


The current implementation is limited to devices with compute capability above or equal 2.0.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`side` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A[i]` is on the left or right of `X[i]`.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `A[i]` lower or upper part is stored, the other part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`diag` |  | input | Indicates if the elements on the main diagonal of matrix `A[i]` are unity and should not be accessed.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix `B[i]`, with matrix `A[i]` sized accordingly.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix `B[i]`, with matrix `A[i]` is sized accordingly.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication, if `alpha == 0` then `A[i]` is not referenced and `B[i]` does not have to be a valid input.  
`A` | device | input | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A[i]`.  
`B` | device | in/out | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, m)`. Matrices `B[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B[i]`.  
`batchCount` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in A and B.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0`, `n < 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `side` is not one of `CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT` and `CUBLAS_SIDE_RIGHT`, or
  * if `diag` is not one of `CUBLAS_DIAG_UNIT` and `CUBLAS_DIAG_NON_UNIT`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` if `side == CUBLAS_SIDE_LEFT`, and `lda < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, m)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[strsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/strsm.f), [dtrsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dtrsm.f), [ctrsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ctrsm.f), [ztrsm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ztrsm.f)
