### 2.8.21. cublasAxpyEx()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasAxpyEx (cublasHandle_t handle,
                                 int n,
                                 const void *alpha,
                                 cudaDataType alphaType,
                                 const void *x,
                                 cudaDataType xType,
                                 int incx,
                                 void *y,
                                 cudaDataType yType,
                                 int incy,
                                 cudaDataType executiontype);
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function is an API generalization of the routine [cublas<t>axpy()](#cublas-t-axpy) where input data, output data and compute type can be specified independently.


This function multiplies the vector `x` by the scalar \\(\alpha\\) and adds it to the vector `y` overwriting the latest vector with the result. Hence, the performed operation is \\(\mathbf{y}\lbrack j\rbrack = \alpha \times \mathbf{x}\lbrack k\rbrack + \mathbf{y}\lbrack j\rbrack\\) for \\(i = 1,\ldots,n\\) , \\(k = 1 + \left( {i - 1} \right)*\text{incx}\\) and \\(j = 1 + \left( {i - 1} \right)*\text{incy}\\) . Notice that the last two equations reflect 1-based indexing used for compatibility with Fortran.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`n` |  | input | Number of elements in the vector `x` and `y`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`alphaType` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of scalar `alpha`.  
`x` | device | input | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`xType` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of vector `x`.  
`incx` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `x`.  
`y` | device | in/out | <_type_ > vector with `n` elements.  
`yType` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of vector `y`.  
`incy` |  | input | Stride between consecutive elements of `y`.  
`executionType` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype in which the computation is executed.


The datatypes combinations currently supported for [cublasAxpyEx()](#cublasaxpyex) are listed in the following table:


alpha | x | y | execution  
---|---|---|---  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F`


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The combination of the parameters `xType`, `yType`, and `executionType` is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | `alphaType` or `xType` or `yType` or `executionType` is not supported.


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[saxpy()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/saxpy.f), [daxpy()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/daxpy.f), [caxpy()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/caxpy.f), [zaxpy()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zaxpy.f)
