### 2.8.13. cublasGemmBatchedEx()


    cublasStatus_t cublasGemmBatchedEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasOperation_t transa,
                                cublasOperation_t transb,
                                int m,
                                int n,
                                int k,
                                const void    *alpha,
                                const void     *const Aarray[],
                                cudaDataType_t Atype,
                                int lda,
                                const void     *const Barray[],
                                cudaDataType_t Btype,
                                int ldb,
                                const void    *beta,
                                void           *const Carray[],
                                cudaDataType_t Ctype,
                                int ldc,
                                int batchCount,
                                cublasComputeType_t computeType,
                                cublasGemmAlgo_t algo)
    
    #if defined(__cplusplus)
    cublasStatus_t cublasGemmBatchedEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasOperation_t transa,
                                cublasOperation_t transb,
                                int m,
                                int n,
                                int k,
                                const void     *alpha,
                                const void     *const Aarray[],
                                cudaDataType   Atype,
                                int lda,
                                const void     *const Barray[],
                                cudaDataType   Btype,
                                int ldb,
                                const void     *beta,
                                void           *const Carray[],
                                cudaDataType   Ctype,
                                int ldc,
                                int batchCount,
                                cudaDataType   computeType,
                                cublasGemmAlgo_t algo)
    #endif
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function is an extension of [cublas<t>gemmBatched()](#id9) that performs the matrix-matrix multiplication of a batch of matrices and allows the user to individually specify the data types for each of the A, B and C matrix arrays, the precision of computation and the GEMM algorithm to be run. Like [cublas<t>gemmBatched()](#id9), the batch is considered to be “uniform”, i.e. all instances have the same dimensions (m, n, k), leading dimensions (lda, ldb, ldc) and transpositions (transa, transb) for their respective A, B and C matrices. The address of the input matrices and the output matrix of each instance of the batch are read from arrays of pointers passed to the function by the caller. Supported combinations of arguments are listed further down in this section.


Note  
  
The second variant of [cublasGemmBatchedEx()](#cublasgemmbatchedex) function is provided for backward compatibility with C++ applications code, where the `computeType` parameter is of `cudaDataType` instead of [cublasComputeType_t](#cublascomputetype-t). C applications would still compile with the updated function signature.


\\(C\lbrack i\rbrack = \alpha\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack)\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack) + \beta C\lbrack i\rbrack,\text{ for i } \in \lbrack 0,batchCount - 1\rbrack\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, and \\(A\\) , \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are arrays of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) \\(m \times k\\) , \\(\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) \\(k \times n\\) and \\(C\lbrack i\rbrack\\) \\(m \times n\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B\lbrack i\rbrack\\) .


Note

\\(C\lbrack i\rbrack\\) matrices must not overlap, i.e. the individual gemm operations must be computable independently; otherwise, behavior is undefined.


On certain problem sizes, it might be advantageous to make multiple calls to [cublas<t>gemm()](#id8) in different CUDA streams, rather than use this API.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`transa` |  | input | Operation op(`Aarray[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`transb` |  | input | Operation op(`Barray[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`Aarray[i]`) and `Carray[i]`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`Barray[i]`) and `Carray[i]`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of op(`Aarray[i]`) and rows of op(`Barray[i]`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | Scaling factor for matrix products of the type that corresponds to the computeType and Ctype, see the table below for details.  
`Aarray` | device | input |  Array of pointers to <_Atype_ > array, with each array of dim. `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details.  
`Atype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of `Aarray`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `Aarray[i]`.  
`Barray` | device | input |  Array of pointers to <_Btype_ > array, with each array of dim. `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, k)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1,n)` otherwise. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details.  
`Btype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of `Barray`.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `Barray[i]`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | Scaling factor for `Carray` of the type that corresponds to the computeType and Ctype, see the table below for details. If `beta == 0`, `Carray[i]` does not have to be a valid input.  
`Carray` | device | in/out |  Array of pointers to <_Ctype_ > array. It has dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`. Matrices `Carray[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. All pointers must meet certain alignment criteria. Please see below for details.  
`Ctype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of `Carray`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of a two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Carray[i]`.  
`batchCount` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in `Aarray`, `Barray` and `Carray`.  
`computeType` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the computation type.  
`algo` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the algorithm. See [cublasGemmAlgo_t](#cublasgemmalgo-t).


[cublasGemmBatchedEx()](#cublasgemmbatchedex) supports the following Compute Type, Scale Type, Atype/Btype, and Ctype:


Compute Type | Scale Type (alpha and beta) | Atype/Btype | Ctype  
---|---|---|---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32I` | `CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32I`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_8I` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16BF` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_TF32` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F`  
`CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F`


If `Atype` is `CUDA_R_16F` or `CUDA_R_16BF`, or `computeType` is any of the `FAST` options, or when math mode or `algo` enable fast math modes, pointers (not the pointer arrays) placed in the GPU memory must be properly aligned to avoid misaligned memory access errors. Ideally all pointers are aligned to at least 16 Bytes. Otherwise it is recommended that they meet the following rule:


  * if `k % 8 == 0` then ensure `intptr_t(ptr) % 16 == 0`,  
  
  * if `k % 2 == 0` then ensure `intptr_t(ptr) % 4 == 0`.


Note

Compute types `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` and `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` are only supported with all pointers `A[i]`, `B[i]` being 4-byte aligned and lda, ldb being multiples of 4. For a better performance, it is also recommended that IMMA kernels requirements for the regular data ordering listed [here](#cublasltmatmul-regular-imma-conditions) are met.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | [cublasGemmBatchedEx()](#cublasgemmbatchedex) is only supported for GPU with architecture capabilities equal to or greater than 5.0.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The combination of the parameters `Atype`, `Btype` and `Ctype` or the algorithm, `algo` is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `transa` and `transb` are not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, k)` when `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL, or
  * if `Atype` or `Btype` or `Ctype` or `algo` or `computeType` is not supported

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU.


Also refer to: [sgemm.()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sgemm.f)
