### 2.8.11. cublas<t>gemmEx()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgemmEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa,
                               cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m,
                               int n,
                               int k,
                               const float    *alpha,
                               const void     *A,
                               cudaDataType_t Atype,
                               int lda,
                               const void     *B,
                               cudaDataType_t Btype,
                               int ldb,
                               const float    *beta,
                               void           *C,
                               cudaDataType_t Ctype,
                               int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgemmEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa,
                               cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m,
                               int n,
                               int k,
                               const cuComplex *alpha,
                               const void      *A,
                               cudaDataType_t  Atype,
                               int lda,
                               const void      *B,
                               cudaDataType_t  Btype,
                               int ldb,
                               const cuComplex *beta,
                               void            *C,
                               cudaDataType_t  Ctype,
                               int ldc)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function is an extension of [cublas<t>gemm()](#id8). In this function the input matrices and output matrices can have a lower precision but the computation is still done in the type `<t>`. For example, in the type `float` for [cublasSgemmEx()](#cublas-t-gemmex) and in the type `cuComplex` for [cublasCgemmEx()](#cublas-t-gemmex).


\\(C = \alpha\text{op}(A)\text{op}(B) + \beta C\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, and \\(A\\) , \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A)\\) \\(m \times k\\) , \\(\text{op}(B)\\) \\(k \times n\\) and \\(C\\) \\(m \times n\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B)\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B\\) .


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`transa` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`transb` |  | input | Operation op(`B`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A`) and `C`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`B`) and `C`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of op(`A`) and rows of op(`B`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimensions `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`Atype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `A`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, k)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1,n)` otherwise.  
`Btype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `B`.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0`, `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`.  
`Ctype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `C`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of a two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `C`.


The matrix types combinations supported for [cublasSgemmEx()](#cublas-t-gemmex) are listed below:


C | A/B  
---|---  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_8I`  
| `CUDA_R_16BF`  
| `CUDA_R_16F`  
| `CUDA_R_32F`


The matrix types combinations supported for [cublasCgemmEx()](#cublas-t-gemmex) are listed below :


C | A/B  
---|---  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_8I`  
| `CUDA_C_32F`


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | [cublasCgemmEx()](#cublas-t-gemmex) is only supported for GPU with architecture capabilities equal or greater than 5.0  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The combination of the parameters `Atype`, `Btype` and `Ctype` is not supported  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `transa` and `transb` are not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, k)` when `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL, or
  * if `C` is NULL when `beta` is not zero

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgemm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sgemm.f)


For more information about the numerical behavior of some GEMM algorithms, refer to the [GEMM Algorithms Numerical Behavior](#gemm-algorithms-numerical-behavior) section.
