### 2.8.5. cublas<t>getriBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgetriBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       const float *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       float *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgetriBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       const double *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       double *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgetriBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       const cuComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       cuComplex *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgetriBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       const cuDoubleComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       cuDoubleComplex *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    


`Aarray` and `Carray` are arrays of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions `n*n` and leading dimension `lda` and `ldc` respectively.


This function performs the inversion of matrices `A[i]` for i = 0, …, `batchSize-1`.


Prior to calling cublas<t>getriBatched, the matrix `A[i]` must be factorized first using the routine cublas<t>getrfBatched. After the call of cublas<t>getrfBatched, the matrix pointing by `Aarray[i]` will contain the LU factors of the matrix `A[i]` and the vector pointing by `(PivotArray+i)` will contain the pivoting sequence.


Following the LU factorization, cublas<t>getriBatched uses forward and backward triangular solvers to complete inversion of matrices `A[i]` for i = 0, …, `batchSize-1`. The inversion is out-of-place, so memory space of Carray[i] cannot overlap memory space of Array[i].


Typically all parameters in cublas<t>getrfBatched would be passed into cublas<t>getriBatched. For example,


    // step 1: perform in-place LU decomposition, P*A = L*U.
    //      Aarray[i] is n*n matrix A[i]
        cublasDgetrfBatched(handle, n, Aarray, lda, PivotArray, infoArray, batchSize);
    //      check infoArray[i] to see if factorization of A[i] is successful or not.
    //      Array[i] contains LU factorization of A[i]
    
    // step 2: perform out-of-place inversion, Carray[i] = inv(A[i])
        cublasDgetriBatched(handle, n, Aarray, lda, PivotArray, Carray, ldc, infoArray, batchSize);
    //      check infoArray[i] to see if inversion of A[i] is successful or not.
    


The user can check singularity from either cublas<t>getrfBatched or cublas<t>getriBatched.


This function is intended to be used for matrices of small sizes where the launch overhead is a significant factor.


If cublas<t>getrfBatched is performed by non-pivoting, `PivotArray` of cublas<t>getriBatched should be NULL.


cublas<t>getriBatched supports arbitrary dimension.


cublas<t>getriBatched only supports compute capability 2.0 or above.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of `Aarray[i]`.  
`Aarray` | device | input | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dimension `n*n` with `lda >= max(1, n)`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Aarray[i]`.  
`PivotArray` | device | output | Array of size `n*batchSize` that contains the pivoting sequence of each factorization of `Aarray[i]` stored in a linear fashion. If `PivotArray` is NULL, pivoting is disabled.  
`Carray` | device | output | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dimension `n*n` with `ldc >= max(1, n)`. Matrices `Carray[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Carray[i]`.  
`infoArray` | device | output |  Array of size `batchSize` that info(=infoArray[i]) contains the information of inversion of `A[i]`. If `info == 0`, the execution is successful. If `info == k`, `U(k, k) == 0`. The U is exactly singular and the inversion failed.  
`batchSize` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in A


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0` or `lda < 0` or `ldc < 0` or `batchSize < 0`, or
  * if `lda < n` or `ldc < n`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU
