### 2.8.6. cublas<t>matinvBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSmatinvBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int n,
                                        const float *const A[],
                                        int lda,
                                        float *const Ainv[],
                                        int lda_inv,
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasDmatinvBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int n,
                                        const double *const A[],
                                        int lda,
                                        double *const Ainv[],
                                        int lda_inv,
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasCmatinvBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int n,
                                        const cuComplex *const A[],
                                        int lda,
                                        cuComplex *const Ainv[],
                                        int lda_inv,
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasZmatinvBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int n,
                                        const cuDoubleComplex *const A[],
                                        int lda,
                                        cuDoubleComplex *const Ainv[],
                                        int lda_inv,
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    


`A` and `Ainv` are arrays of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions `n*n` and leading dimension `lda` and `lda_inv` respectively.


This function performs the inversion of matrices `A[i]` for i = 0, …, `batchSize-1`.


This function is a short cut of [cublas<t>getrfBatched()](#cublas-t-getrfbatched) plus [cublas<t>getriBatched()](#cublas-t-getribatched). However it doesn’t work if `n` is greater than 32. If not, the user has to go through [cublas<t>getrfBatched()](#cublas-t-getrfbatched) and [cublas<t>getriBatched()](#cublas-t-getribatched).


If the matrix `A[i]` is singular, then `info[i]` reports singularity, the same as [cublas<t>getrfBatched()](#cublas-t-getrfbatched).


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of `A[i]`.  
`A` | device | input | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dimension `n*n` with `lda >= max(1, n)`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `A[i]`.  
`Ainv` | device | output | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dimension `n*n` with `lda_inv >= max(1, n)`. Matrices `Ainv[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.  
`lda_inv` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Ainv[i]`.  
`info` | device | output |  Array of size `batchSize` that info[i] contains the information of inversion of `A[i]`. If `info[i] == 0`, the execution is successful. If `info[i] == k`, then `U(k, k) == 0`. The U is exactly singular and the inversion failed.  
`batchSize` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in `A`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0` or `lda < 0` or `lda_inv < 0` or `batchSize < 0`, or
  * if `lda < n` or `lda_inv < n`, or
  * if `n > 32`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU
