### 2.8.12. cublasGemmEx()


    cublasStatus_t cublasGemmEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa,
                               cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m,
                               int n,
                               int k,
                               const void    *alpha,
                               const void     *A,
                               cudaDataType_t Atype,
                               int lda,
                               const void     *B,
                               cudaDataType_t Btype,
                               int ldb,
                               const void    *beta,
                               void           *C,
                               cudaDataType_t Ctype,
                               int ldc,
                               cublasComputeType_t computeType,
                               cublasGemmAlgo_t algo)
    
    #if defined(__cplusplus)
    cublasStatus_t cublasGemmEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                               cublasOperation_t transa,
                               cublasOperation_t transb,
                               int m,
                               int n,
                               int k,
                               const void     *alpha,
                               const void     *A,
                               cudaDataType   Atype,
                               int lda,
                               const void     *B,
                               cudaDataType   Btype,
                               int ldb,
                               const void     *beta,
                               void           *C,
                               cudaDataType   Ctype,
                               int ldc,
                               cudaDataType   computeType,
                               cublasGemmAlgo_t algo)
    #endif
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function is an extension of [cublas<t>gemm()](#id8) that allows the user to individually specify the data types for each of the A, B and C matrices, the precision of computation and the GEMM algorithm to be run. Supported combinations of arguments are listed further down in this section.


Note  
  
The second variant of [cublasGemmEx()](#cublasgemmex) function is provided for backward compatibility with C++ applications code, where the `computeType` parameter is of `cudaDataType` instead of [cublasComputeType_t](#cublascomputetype-t). C applications would still compile with the updated function signature.


This function is only supported on devices with compute capability 5.0 or later.


\\(C = \alpha\text{op}(A)\text{op}(B) + \beta C\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, and \\(A\\) , \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A)\\) \\(m \times k\\) , \\(\text{op}(B)\\) \\(k \times n\\) and \\(C\\) \\(m \times n\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B)\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B\\) .


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`transa` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`transb` |  | input | Operation op(`B`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A`) and `C`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`B`) and `C`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of op(`A`) and rows of op(`B`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | Scaling factor for A*B of the type that corresponds to the computeType and Ctype, see the table below for details.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimensions `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`Atype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `A`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, k)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1,n)` otherwise.  
`Btype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `B`.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | Scaling factor for C of the type that corresponds to the computeType and Ctype, see the table below for details. If `beta == 0`, `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`.  
`Ctype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `C`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of a two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `C`.  
`computeType` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the computation type.  
`algo` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the algorithm. See [cublasGemmAlgo_t](#cublasgemmalgo-t).


[cublasGemmEx()](#cublasgemmex) supports the following Compute Type, Scale Type, Atype/Btype, and Ctype:


Compute Type | Scale Type (alpha and beta) | Atype/Btype | Ctype  
---|---|---|---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32I` | `CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32I`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_8I` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16BF` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_TF32` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F`  
`CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F`


Note  
  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` and `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` compute types are only supported with A, B being 4-byte aligned and lda, ldb being multiples of 4. For better performance, it is also recommended that IMMA kernels requirements for a regular data ordering listed [here](#cublasltmatmul-regular-imma-conditions) are met.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed in the following table.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | [cublasGemmEx()](#cublasgemmex) is only supported for GPU with architecture capabilities equal or greater than 5.0.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The combination of the parameters `Atype`, `Btype` and `Ctype` or the algorithm, `algo` is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `transa` and `transb` are not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, k)` when `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL, or
  * if `C` is NULL when `beta` is not zero
  * if `Atype` or `Btype` or `Ctype` or `algo` are not supported

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU.


Starting with release 11.2, using the typed functions instead of the extension functions (cublas**Ex()) helps in reducing the binary size when linking to static cuBLAS Library.


Also refer to: [sgemm.()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sgemm.f)


For more information about the numerical behavior of some GEMM algorithms, refer to the [GEMM Algorithms Numerical Behavior](#gemm-algorithms-numerical-behavior) section.
