### 2.8.4. cublas<t>getrsBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgetrsBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       const float *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       const int *devIpiv,
                                       float *const Barray[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int *info,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgetrsBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       const double *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       const int *devIpiv,
                                       double *const Barray[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int *info,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgetrsBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       const cuComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       const int *devIpiv,
                                       cuComplex *const Barray[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int *info,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgetrsBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       const cuDoubleComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       const int *devIpiv,
                                       cuDoubleComplex *const Barray[],
                                       int ldb,
                                       int *info,
                                       int batchSize);
    


This function solves an array of systems of linear equations of the form:


\\(\text{op}(A\lbrack i \rbrack) X\lbrack i\rbrack = B\lbrack i\rbrack\\)


where \\(A\lbrack i\rbrack\\) is a matrix which has been LU factorized with pivoting, \\(X\lbrack i\rbrack\\) and \\(B\lbrack i\rbrack\\) are \\(n \times {nrhs}\\) matrices. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} {A\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ {A^{T}\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ {A^{H}\lbrack i\rbrack} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


This function is intended to be used for matrices of small sizes where the launch overhead is a significant factor.


[cublas<t>getrsBatched()](#cublas-t-getrsbatched) supports non-pivot LU factorization if `devIpiv` is NULL.


[cublas<t>getrsBatched()](#cublas-t-getrsbatched) supports arbitrary dimension.


[cublas<t>getrsBatched()](#cublas-t-getrsbatched) only supports compute capability 2.0 or above.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of `Aarray[i]`.  
`nrhs` |  | input | Number of columns of `Barray[i]`.  
`Aarray` | device | input | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `n x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Aarray[i]`.  
`devIpiv` | device | input | Array of size `n x batchSize` that contains the pivoting sequence of each factorization of `Aarray[i]` stored in a linear fashion. If `devIpiv` is NULL, pivoting for all `Aarray[i]` is ignored.  
`Barray` | device | input/output | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `n x nrhs` with `ldb >= max(1, n)`. Matrices `Barray[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each solution matrix `Barray[i]`.  
`info` | host | output |  If `info == 0`, the execution is successful. If `info = -j`, the `j`-th parameter had an illegal value.  
`batchSize` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in A


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0` or `nrhs < 0`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, n)`, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, n)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgeqrs()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/single/sgetrs.f), [dgeqrs()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/double/dgetrs.f), [cgeqrs()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex/cgetrs.f), [zgeqrs()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex16/zgetrs.f)
