### 2.8.7. cublas<t>geqrfBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgeqrfBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int m,
                                        int n,
                                        float *const Aarray[],
                                        int lda,
                                        float *const TauArray[],
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgeqrfBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int m,
                                        int n,
                                        double *const Aarray[],
                                        int lda,
                                        double *const TauArray[],
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgeqrfBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int m,
                                        int n,
                                        cuComplex *const Aarray[],
                                        int lda,
                                        cuComplex *const TauArray[],
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgeqrfBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                        int m,
                                        int n,
                                        cuDoubleComplex *const Aarray[],
                                        int lda,
                                        cuDoubleComplex *const TauArray[],
                                        int *info,
                                        int batchSize);
    


`Aarray` is an array of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions `m x n` and leading dimension `lda`. `TauArray` is an array of pointers to vectors of dimension of at least `max (1, min(m, n)`.


This function performs the QR factorization of each `Aarray[i]` for `i = 0, ...,batchSize-1` using Householder reflections. Each matrix `Q[i]` is represented as a product of elementary reflectors and is stored in the lower part of each `Aarray[i]` as follows :


    Q[j] = H[j][1] H[j][2] . . . H[j](k), where k = min(m,n).
    


Each H[j][i] has the form


    H[j][i] = I - tau[j] * v * v'
    


where `tau[j]` is a real scalar, and `v` is a real vector with `v(1:i-1) = 0` and `v(i) = 1`; `v(i+1:m)` is stored on exit in `Aarray[j][i+1:m,i]`, and `tau` in `TauArray[j][i]`.


This function is intended to be used for matrices of small sizes where the launch overhead is a significant factor.


cublas<t>geqrfBatched supports arbitrary dimension.


cublas<t>geqrfBatched only supports compute capability 2.0 or above.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows `Aarray[i]`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of `Aarray[i]`.  
`Aarray` | device | input | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `m x n` with `lda >= max(1, m)`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Aarray[i]`.  
`TauArray` | device | output | Array of pointers to <_type_ > vector, with each vector of dim. `max(1 ,min(m, n))`.  
`info` | host | output |  If `info == 0`, the parameters passed to the function are valid If `info < 0`, the parameter in position `-info` is invalid  
`batchSize` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in `Aarray`


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `batchSize < 0`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/single/sgeqrf.f), [dgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/double/dgeqrf.f), [cgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex/cgeqrf.f), [zgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex16/zgeqrf.f)
