### 2.8.14. cublasGemmStridedBatchedEx()


    cublasStatus_t cublasGemmStridedBatchedEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasOperation_t transa,
                                cublasOperation_t transb,
                                int m,
                                int n,
                                int k,
                                const void    *alpha,
                                const void     *A,
                                cudaDataType_t Atype,
                                int lda,
                                long long int strideA,
                                const void     *B,
                                cudaDataType_t Btype,
                                int ldb,
                                long long int strideB,
                                const void    *beta,
                                void           *C,
                                cudaDataType_t Ctype,
                                int ldc,
                                long long int strideC,
                                int batchCount,
                                cublasComputeType_t computeType,
                                cublasGemmAlgo_t algo)
    
    #if defined(__cplusplus)
    cublasStatus_t cublasGemmStridedBatchedEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                cublasOperation_t transa,
                                cublasOperation_t transb,
                                int m,
                                int n,
                                int k,
                                const void    *alpha,
                                const void     *A,
                                cudaDataType Atype,
                                int lda,
                                long long int strideA,
                                const void     *B,
                                cudaDataType Btype,
                                int ldb,
                                long long int strideB,
                                const void    *beta,
                                void           *C,
                                cudaDataType Ctype,
                                int ldc,
                                long long int strideC,
                                int batchCount,
                                cudaDataType computeType,
                                cublasGemmAlgo_t algo)
    #endif
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function is an extension of [cublas<t>gemmStridedBatched()](#id10) that performs the matrix-matrix multiplication of a batch of matrices and allows the user to individually specify the data types for each of the A, B and C matrices, the precision of computation and the GEMM algorithm to be run. Like [cublas<t>gemmStridedBatched()](#id10), the batch is considered to be “uniform”, i.e. all instances have the same dimensions (m, n, k), leading dimensions (lda, ldb, ldc) and transpositions (transa, transb) for their respective A, B and C matrices. Input matrices A, B and output matrix C for each instance of the batch are located at fixed offsets in number of elements from their locations in the previous instance. Pointers to A, B and C matrices for the first instance are passed to the function by the user along with the offsets in number of elements - strideA, strideB and strideC that determine the locations of input and output matrices in future instances.


Note  
  
The second variant of [cublasGemmStridedBatchedEx()](#cublasgemmstridedbatchedex) function is provided for backward compatibility with C++ applications code, where the `computeType` parameter is of [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t) instead of [cublasComputeType_t](#cublascomputetype-t). C applications would still compile with the updated function signature.


\\(C + i*{strideC} = \alpha\text{op}(A + i*{strideA})\text{op}(B + i*{strideB}) + \beta(C + i*{strideC}),\text{ for i } \in \lbrack 0,batchCount - 1\rbrack\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, and \\(A\\) , \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are arrays of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) \\(m \times k\\) , \\(\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) \\(k \times n\\) and \\(C\lbrack i\rbrack\\) \\(m \times n\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B\lbrack i\rbrack)\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B\lbrack i\rbrack\\) .


Note

\\(C\lbrack i\rbrack\\) matrices must not overlap, i.e. the individual gemm operations must be computable independently; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.


On certain problem sizes, it might be advantageous to make multiple calls to [cublas<t>gemm()](#id8) in different CUDA streams, rather than use this API.


Note

In the table below, we use `A[i], B[i], C[i]` as notation for A, B and C matrices in the ith instance of the batch, implicitly assuming they are respectively offsets in number of elements `strideA, strideB, strideC` away from `A[i-1], B[i-1], C[i-1]`. The unit for the offset is number of elements and must not be zero .


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`transa` |  | input | Operation op(`A[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`transb` |  | input | Operation op(`B[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A[i]`) and `C[i]`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`B[i]`) and `C[i]`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of op(`A[i]`) and rows of op(`B[i]`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | Scaling factor for A*B of the <_Scale Type_ > that corresponds to the computeType and Ctype, see the table below for details.  
`A` | device | input | Pointer to <_Atype_ > matrix, A, corresponds to the first instance of the batch, with dimensions `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`Atype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of `A`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `A[i]`.  
`strideA` |  | input | Value of type long long int that gives the offset in number of elements between `A[i]` and `A[i+1]`.  
`B` | device | input | Pointer to <_Btype_ > matrix, B, corresponds to the first instance of the batch, with dimensions `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, k)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1,n)` otherwise.  
`Btype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of `B`.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B[i]`.  
`strideB` |  | input | Value of type long long int that gives the offset in number of elements between `B[i]` and `B[i+1]`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | Scaling factor for C of the <_Scale Type_ > that corresponds to the computeType and Ctype, see the table below for details. If `beta == 0`, `C[i]` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | in/out | Pointer to <_Ctype_ > matrix, C, corresponds to the first instance of the batch, with dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`. Matrices `C[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.  
`Ctype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of `C`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of a two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `C[i]`.  
`strideC` |  | input | Value of type long long int that gives the offset in number of elements between `C[i]` and `C[i+1]`.  
`batchCount` |  | input | Number of GEMMs to perform in the batch.  
`computeType` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the computation type.  
`algo` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the algorithm. See [cublasGemmAlgo_t](#cublasgemmalgo-t).


[cublasGemmStridedBatchedEx()](#cublasgemmstridedbatchedex) supports the following Compute Type, Scale Type, Atype/Btype, and Ctype:


Compute Type | Scale Type (alpha and beta) | Atype/Btype | Ctype  
---|---|---|---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32I` | `CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32I`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_8I` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16BF` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_TF32` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F`  
`CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F` | `CUDA_C_64F`


Note  
  
Compute types `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` and `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` are only supported with all pointers `A[i]`, `B[i]` being 4-byte aligned and lda, ldb being multiples of 4. For a better performance, it is also recommended that IMMA kernels requirements for the regular data ordering listed [here](#cublasltmatmul-regular-imma-conditions) are met.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | [cublasGemmBatchedEx()](#cublasgemmbatchedex) is only supported for GPU with architecture capabilities equal or greater than 5.0.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The combination of the parameters `Atype`, `Btype` and `Ctype` or the algorithm, `algo` is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `transa` and `transb` are not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_C`, `CUBLAS_OP_T`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, k)` when `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL, or
  * if `Atype` or `Btype` or `Ctype` or `algo` or `computeType` is not supported

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


Also refer to: [sgemm.()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/sgemm.f)
