### 2.8.17. cublasCsyrk3mEx()’āü


    cublasStatus_t cublasCsyrk3mEx(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                   cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                                   cublasOperation_t trans,
                                   int n,
                                   int k,
                                   const cuComplex *alpha,
                                   const void      *A,
                                   cudaDataType    Atype,
                                   int lda,
                                   const cuComplex *beta,
                                   cuComplex       *C,
                                   cudaDataType    Ctype,
                                   int ldc)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function is an extension of [cublasCsyrk()](#cublas-t-syrk) where the input matrix and output matrix can have a lower precision but the computation is still done in the type `cuComplex`. This routine is implemented using the Gauss complexity reduction algorithm which can lead to an increase in performance up to 25%


This function performs the symmetric rank- \\(k\\) update


\\(C = \alpha\text{op}(A)\text{op}(A)^{T} + \beta C\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, \\(C\\) is a symmetric matrix stored in lower or upper mode, and \\(A\\) is a matrix with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A)\\) \\(n \times k\\) . Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


Note  
  
This routine is only supported on GPUs with architecture capabilities equal to or greater than 5.0


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`uplo` |  | input | Indicates if matrix `C` lower or upper part is stored, the other symmetric part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or transpose.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A`) and `C`.  
`k` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`A`).  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, n)` if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`Atype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `A`.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix A.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `beta == 0` then `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldc x n`, with `ldc >= max(1, n)`.  
`Ctype` |  | input | Enumerant specifying the datatype of matrix `C`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `C`.


The matrix types combinations supported for [cublasCsyrk3mEx()](#cublascsyrk3mex) are listed below :


A | C  
---|---  
`CUDA_C_8I` | `CUDA_C_32F`  
`CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F`


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `n < 0` or `k < 0`, or
  * if `uplo` is not one of `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` and `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER`, or
  * if `trans` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, n)` if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda < max(1, k)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, n)`, or
  * if `Atype` or `Ctype` are not supported

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The combination of the parameters `Atype` and `Ctype` is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | The device has a compute capability lower than 5.0.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU.


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[ssyrk()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ssyrk.f), [dsyrk()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dsyrk.f), [csyrk()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/csyrk.f), [zsyrk()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zsyrk.f)
