### 2.8.3. cublas<t>getrfBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgetrfBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       float *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgetrfBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       double *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgetrfBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       cuComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgetrfBatched(cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       int n,
                                       cuDoubleComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       int *PivotArray,
                                       int *infoArray,
                                       int batchSize);
    


`Aarray` is an array of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions `nxn` and leading dimension `lda`.


This function performs the LU factorization of each `Aarray[i]` for i = 0, …, `batchSize-1` by the following equation


\\(\text{P}\text{*}{Aarray}\lbrack i\rbrack = L\text{*}U\\)


where `P` is a permutation matrix which represents partial pivoting with row interchanges. `L` is a lower triangular matrix with unit diagonal and `U` is an upper triangular matrix.


Formally `P` is written by a product of permutation matrices `Pj`, for `j = 1,2,...,n`, say `P = P1 * P2 * P3 * .... * Pn`. `Pj` is a permutation matrix which interchanges two rows of vector x when performing `Pj*x`. `Pj` can be constructed by `j` element of `PivotArray[i]` by the following Matlab code


    // In Matlab PivotArray[i] is an array of base-1.
    // In C, PivotArray[i] is base-0.
    Pj = eye(n);
    swap Pj(j,:) and Pj(PivotArray[i][j]  ,:)
    


`L` and `U` are written back to original matrix `A`, and diagonal elements of `L` are discarded. The `L` and `U` can be constructed by the following Matlab code


    // A is a matrix of nxn after getrf.
    L = eye(n);
    for j = 1:n
        L(j+1:n,j) = A(j+1:n,j)
    end
    U = zeros(n);
    for i = 1:n
        U(i,i:n) = A(i,i:n)
    end
    


If matrix `A(=Aarray[i])` is singular, getrf still works and the value of `info(=infoArray[i])` reports first row index that LU factorization cannot proceed. If info is `k`, `U(k,k)` is zero. The equation `P*A == L*U` still holds, however `L` and `U` reconstruction needs a different Matlab code as follows:


    // A is a matrix of nxn after getrf.
    // info is k, which means U(k,k) is zero.
    L = eye(n);
    for j = 1:k-1
        L(j+1:n,j) = A(j+1:n,j)
    end
    U = zeros(n);
    for i = 1:k-1
        U(i,i:n) = A(i,i:n)
    end
    for i = k:n
        U(i,k:n) = A(i,k:n)
    end
    


This function is intended to be used for matrices of small sizes where the launch overhead is a significant factor.


cublas<t>getrfBatched supports non-pivot LU factorization if `PivotArray` is NULL.


cublas<t>getrfBatched supports arbitrary dimension.


cublas<t>getrfBatched only supports compute capability 2.0 or above.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`n` |  | input | Number of rows and columns of `Aarray[i]`.  
`Aarray` | device | input/output | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `n x n` with `lda >= max(1, n)`. Matrices `Aarray[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, undefined behavior is expected.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Aarray[i]`.  
`PivotArray` | device | output | Array of size `n x batchSize` that contains the pivoting sequence of each factorization of `Aarray[i]` stored in a linear fashion. If `PivotArray` is NULL, pivoting is disabled.  
`infoArray` | device | output |  Array of size `batchSize` that info(=infoArray[i]) contains the information of factorization of `Aarray[i]`. If `info == 0`, the execution is successful. If `info = -j`, the `j`-th parameter had an illegal value. If `info = k`, `U(k, k) == 0`. The factorization has been completed, but U is exactly singular.  
`batchSize` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in A


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | The parameters `n < 0` or `batchSize < 0` or `lda <0`  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/single/sgetrf.f), [dgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/double/dgetrf.f), [cgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex/cgetrf.f), [zgeqrf()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex16/zgetrf.f)
