### 2.8.1. cublas<t>geam()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgeam(cublasHandle_t handle,
                              cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                              int m, int n,
                              const float           *alpha,
                              const float           *A, int lda,
                              const float           *beta,
                              const float           *B, int ldb,
                              float           *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgeam(cublasHandle_t handle,
                              cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                              int m, int n,
                              const double          *alpha,
                              const double          *A, int lda,
                              const double          *beta,
                              const double          *B, int ldb,
                              double          *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgeam(cublasHandle_t handle,
                              cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                              int m, int n,
                              const cuComplex       *alpha,
                              const cuComplex       *A, int lda,
                              const cuComplex       *beta ,
                              const cuComplex       *B, int ldb,
                              cuComplex       *C, int ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgeam(cublasHandle_t handle,
                              cublasOperation_t transa, cublasOperation_t transb,
                              int m, int n,
                              const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                              const cuDoubleComplex *A, int lda,
                              const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                              const cuDoubleComplex *B, int ldb,
                              cuDoubleComplex *C, int ldc)
    


This function supports the [64-bit Integer Interface](#bit-integer-interface).


This function performs the matrix-matrix addition/transposition


\\(C = \alpha\text{op}(A) + \beta\text{op}(B)\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, and \\(A\\) , \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are matrices stored in column-major format with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A)\\) \\(m \times n\\) , \\(\text{op}(B)\\) \\(m \times n\\) and \\(C\\) \\(m \times n\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\)


\\(\text{op}(A) = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} A & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ A^{T} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_T}$}} \\\ A^{H} & {\text{if }\textsf{transa == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


and \\(\text{op}(B)\\) is defined similarly for matrix \\(B\\) .


The operation is out-of-place if C does not overlap A or B.


The in-place mode supports the following two operations,


\\(C = \alpha\text{*}C + \beta\text{op}(B)\\)


\\(C = \alpha\text{op}(A) + \beta\text{*}C\\)


For in-place mode, if `C == A`, `ldc == lda` and `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N`. If `C === B`, `ldc == ldb` and `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N`. If the user does not meet above requirements, `CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` is returned.


The operation includes the following special cases:


the user can reset matrix C to zero by setting `*alpha = beta = 0`.


the user can transpose matrix A by setting `*alpha = 1 and *beta = 0`.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`transa` |  | input | Operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`transb` |  | input | Operation op(`B`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of matrix op(`A`) and `C`.  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of matrix op(`B`) and `C`.  
`alpha` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `*alpha == 0`, `A` does not have to be a valid input.  
`A` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimensions `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x m` with `lda >= max(1, n)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `A`.  
`B` | device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, m)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x m` with `ldb >= max(1,n)` otherwise.  
`ldb` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host or device | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication. If `*beta == 0`, `B` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | device | output | <_type_ > array of dimensions `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of a two-dimensional array used to store the matrix `C`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0`, or
  * if `transa` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `transb` is not one of `CUBLAS_OP_N`, `CUBLAS_OP_T` and `CUBLAS_OP_C`, or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` when `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N`, and `lda < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldb < max(1, m)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N`, and `ldb < max(1, n)` otherwise, or
  * if `ldc < max(1, m)`, or
  * if `A == C` and `(transa != CUBLAS_OP_N) || (lda != ldc)`, or
  * if `B == C` and `(transb != CUBLAS_OP_N) || (ldb != ldc)`, or
  * if `alpha` or `beta` are NULL

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU
