### 2.8.8. cublas<t>gelsBatched()


    cublasStatus_t cublasSgelsBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       float *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       float *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *info,
                                       int *devInfoArray,
                                       int batchSize );
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasDgelsBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       double *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       double *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *info,
                                       int *devInfoArray,
                                       int batchSize );
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasCgelsBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       cuComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       cuComplex *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *info,
                                       int *devInfoArray,
                                       int batchSize );
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasZgelsBatched( cublasHandle_t handle,
                                       cublasOperation_t trans,
                                       int m,
                                       int n,
                                       int nrhs,
                                       cuDoubleComplex *const Aarray[],
                                       int lda,
                                       cuDoubleComplex *const Carray[],
                                       int ldc,
                                       int *info,
                                       int *devInfoArray,
                                       int batchSize );
    


`Aarray` is an array of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format. `Carray` is an array of pointers to matrices stored in column-major format.


This function find the least squares solution of a batch of overdetermined systems: it solves the least squares problem described as follows :


    minimize  || Carray[i] - Aarray[i]*Xarray[i] || , with i = 0, ...,batchSize-1
    


On exit, each `Aarray[i]` is overwritten with their QR factorization and each `Carray[i]` is overwritten with the least square solution


cublas<t>gelsBatched supports only the non-transpose operation and only solves over-determined systems (m >= n).


cublas<t>gelsBatched only supports compute capability 2.0 or above.


This function is intended to be used for matrices of small sizes where the launch overhead is a significant factor.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | Handle to the cuBLAS library context.  
`trans` |  | input | Operation op(`Aarray[i]`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose. Only non-transpose operation is currently supported.  
`m` |  | input | Number of rows of each `Aarray[i]` and `Carray[i]` if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N`, numbers of columns of each `Aarray[i]` otherwise (not supported currently).  
`n` |  | input | Number of columns of each `Aarray[i]` if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N`, and number of rows of each `Aarray[i]` and `Carray[i]` otherwise (not supported currently).  
`nrhs` |  | input | Number of columns of each `Carray[i]`.  
`Aarray` | device | input/output | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `m x n` with `lda >= max(1, m)` if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N`, and `n x m` with `lda >= max(1, n)` otherwise (not supported currently). Matrices `Aarray[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, behavior is undefined.  
`lda` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Aarray[i]`.  
`Carray` | device | input/output | Array of pointers to <_type_ > array, with each array of dim. `m x nrhs` with `ldc >= max(1, m)` if `trans == CUBLAS_OP_N`, and `n x nrhs` with `lda >= max(1, n)` otherwise (not supported currently). Matrices `Carray[i]` should not overlap; otherwise, behavior is undefined.  
`ldc` |  | input | Leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store each matrix `Carray[i]`.  
`info` | host | output |  If `info == 0` the parameters passed to the function are valid If `info < 0` the parameter in position `-info` is invalid  
`devInfoArray` | device | output |  Optional array of integers of dimension batchsize. If non-null, every element of `devInfoArray[i] == V` has the following meaning: `V == 0` : the `i`-th problem was successfully solved `V > 0` : the `V`-th diagonal element of the `Aarray[i]` is zero. `Aarray[i]` does not have full rank.  
`batchSize` |  | input | Number of pointers contained in Aarray and Carray


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | The library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `m < 0` or `n < 0` or `nrhs < 0` or `batchSize < 0` or
  * if `lda < max(1, m)` or `ldc < max(1, m)`

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | The parameters `m <n` or `trans` is different from non-transpose.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | The function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[sgels()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/single/sgels.f), [dgels()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/double/dgels.f), [cgels()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex/cgels.f), [zgels()](http://www.netlib.org/lapack/complex16/zgels.f)
