## 1.2. New and Legacy cuBLAS API


Starting with version 4.0, the cuBLAS Library provides a new API, in addition to the existing legacy API. This section discusses why a new API is provided, the advantages of using it, and the differences with the existing legacy API.


Warning  
  
The legacy cuBLAS API is deprecated and will be removed in future release.


The new cuBLAS library API can be used by including the header file `cublas_v2.h`. It has the following features that the legacy cuBLAS API does not have:


  * The `handle` to the cuBLAS library context is initialized using the function and is explicitly passed to every subsequent library function call. This allows the user to have more control over the library setup when using multiple host threads and multiple GPUs. This also allows the cuBLAS APIs to be reentrant.

  * The scalars \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) can be passed by reference on the host or the device, instead of only being allowed to be passed by value on the host. This change allows library functions to execute asynchronously using streams even when \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are generated by a previous kernel.

  * When a library routine returns a scalar result, it can be returned by reference on the host or the device, instead of only being allowed to be returned by value only on the host. This change allows library routines to be called asynchronously when the scalar result is generated and returned by reference on the device resulting in maximum parallelism.

  * The error status `cublasStatus_t` is returned by all cuBLAS library function calls. This change facilitates debugging and simplifies software development. Note that `cublasStatus` was renamed `cublasStatus_t` to be more consistent with other types in the cuBLAS library.

  * The `cublasAlloc()` and `cublasFree()` functions have been deprecated. This change removes these unnecessary wrappers around `cudaMalloc()` and `cudaFree()`, respectively.

  * The function `cublasSetKernelStream()` was renamed `cublasSetStream()` to be more consistent with the other CUDA libraries.


The legacy cuBLAS API, explained in more detail in [Using the cuBLAS Legacy API](#id92), can be used by including the header file `cublas.h`. Since the legacy API is identical to the previously released cuBLAS library API, existing applications will work out of the box and automatically use this legacy API without any source code changes.


The current and the legacy cuBLAS APIs cannot be used simultaneously in a single translation unit: including both `cublas.h` and `cublas_v2.h` header files will lead to compilation errors due to incompatible symbol redeclarations.


In general, new applications should not use the legacy cuBLAS API, and existing applications should convert to using the new API if it requires sophisticated and optimal stream parallelism, or if it calls cuBLAS routines concurrently from multiple threads.


For the rest of the document, the new cuBLAS Library API will simply be referred to as the cuBLAS Library API.


As mentioned earlier the interfaces to the legacy and the cuBLAS library APIs are the header file `cublas.h` and `cublas_v2.h`, respectively. In addition, applications using the cuBLAS library need to link against:


  * The DSO `cublas.so` for Linux,

  * The DLL `cublas.dll` for Windows, or

  * The dynamic library `cublas.dylib` for Mac OS X.


Note

The same dynamic library implements both the new and legacy cuBLAS APIs.
