### 3.1.2. Heuristics Cache


cuBLASLt uses heuristics to pick the most suitable matmul kernel for execution based on the problem sizes, GPU configuration, and other parameters. This requires performing some computations on the host CPU, which could take tens of microseconds. To overcome this overhead, it is recommended to query the heuristics once using [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetheuristic) and then reuse the result for subsequent computations using [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul).


For the cases where querying heuristics once and then reusing them is not feasible, cuBLASLt implements a heuristics cache that maps matmul problems to kernels previously selected by heuristics. The heuristics cache uses an LRU-like eviction policy and is thread-safe.


The user can control the heuristics cache capacity with the `CUBLASLT_HEURISTICS_CACHE_CAPACITY` environment variable or with the [cublasLtHeuristicsCacheSetCapacity()](#cublasltheuristicscachesetcapacity) function which has higher precedence. The capacity is measured in number of entries and might be rounded up to the nearest multiple of some factor for performance reasons. Each entry takes about 360 bytes but is subject to change. The default capacity is 8192 entries.


Note

Setting capacity to zero disables the cache completely. This can be useful for workloads that do not have a steady state and for which cache operations may have higher overhead than regular heuristics computations.


Note

The cache is not ideal for performance reasons, so it is sometimes necessary to increase its capacity 1.5x-2.x over the anticipated number of unique matmul problems to achieve a nearly perfect hit rate.


See also: [cublasLtHeuristicsCacheGetCapacity()](#cublasltheuristicscachegetcapacity), [cublasLtHeuristicsCacheSetCapacity()](#cublasltheuristicscachesetcapacity).
