## 3.3. cuBLASLt Datatypes Reference


###  3.3.1. cublasLtClusterShape_t 

[cublasLtClusterShape_t](#cublasltclustershape-t) is an enumerated type used to configure thread block cluster dimensions. Thread block clusters add an optional hierarchical level and are made up of thread blocks. Similar to thread blocks, these can be one, two, or three-dimensional. See also [Thread Block Clusters](https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-c-programming-guide/index.html#thread-block-clusters).

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_AUTO` | Cluster shape is automatically selected.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x1x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x2x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x4x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 4 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x1x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x2x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x4x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 4 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_4x1x1` | Cluster shape is 4 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_4x2x1` | Cluster shape is 4 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_4x4x1` | Cluster shape is 4 x 4 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x8x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 8 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_8x1x1` | Cluster shape is 8 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x8x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 8 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_8x2x1` | Cluster shape is 8 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x16x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 16 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_16x1x1` | Cluster shape is 16 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x3x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 3 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x5x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 5 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x6x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 6 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x7x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 7 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x9x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 9 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x10x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 10 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x11x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 11 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x12x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 12 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x13x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 13 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x14x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 14 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_1x15x1` | Cluster shape is 1 x 15 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x3x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 3 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x5x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 5 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x6x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 6 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_2x7x1` | Cluster shape is 2 x 7 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_3x1x1` | Cluster shape is 3 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_3x2x1` | Cluster shape is 3 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_3x3x1` | Cluster shape is 3 x 3 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_3x4x1` | Cluster shape is 3 x 4 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_3x5x1` | Cluster shape is 3 x 5 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_4x3x1` | Cluster shape is 4 x 3 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_5x1x1` | Cluster shape is 5 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_5x2x1` | Cluster shape is 5 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_5x3x1` | Cluster shape is 5 x 3 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_6x1x1` | Cluster shape is 6 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_6x2x1` | Cluster shape is 6 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_7x1x1` | Cluster shape is 7 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_7x2x1` | Cluster shape is 7 x 2 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_9x1x1` | Cluster shape is 9 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_10x1x1` | Cluster shape is 10 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_11x1x1` | Cluster shape is 11 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_12x1x1` | Cluster shape is 12 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_13x1x1` | Cluster shape is 13 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_14x1x1` | Cluster shape is 14 x 1 x 1.  
`CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_15x1x1` | Cluster shape is 15 x 1 x 1.


###  3.3.2. cublasLtEpilogue_t   
  
The [cublasLtEpilogue_t](#cublasltepilogue-t) is an enum type to set the postprocessing options for the epilogue.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DEFAULT = 1` | No special postprocessing, just scale and quantize the results if necessary.  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU = 2` | Apply ReLU point-wise transform to the results (`x := max(x, 0)`).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU | 128` | Apply ReLU point-wise transform to the results (`x := max(x, 0)`). This epilogue mode produces an extra output, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS = 4` | Apply (broadcast) bias from the bias vector. Bias vector length must match matrix D rows, and it must be packed (such as stride between vector elements is 1). Bias vector is broadcast to all columns and added before applying the final postprocessing.  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply bias and then ReLU transform.  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply bias and then ReLU transform. This epilogue mode produces an extra output, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU = 8 | 128` | Apply ReLu gradient to matmul output. Store ReLu gradient in the output matrix. This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU | 16` | Apply independently ReLu and Bias gradient to matmul output. Store ReLu gradient in the output matrix, and Bias gradient in the bias buffer (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER`). This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU = 32` | Apply GELU point-wise transform to the results (`x := GELU(x)`).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU | 128` | Apply GELU point-wise transform to the results (`x := GELU(x)`). This epilogue mode outputs GELU input as a separate matrix (useful for training). See `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply Bias and then GELU transform [5](#gelu).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply Bias and then GELU transform [5](#gelu). This epilogue mode outputs GELU input as a separate matrix (useful for training). See `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU = 64 | 128` | Apply GELU gradient to matmul output. Store GELU gradient in the output matrix. This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU | 16` | Apply independently GELU and Bias gradient to matmul output. Store GELU gradient in the output matrix, and Bias gradient in the bias buffer (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER`). This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADA = 256` | Apply Bias gradient to the input matrix A. The bias size corresponds to the number of rows of the matrix D. The reduction happens over the GEMM’s “k” dimension. Store Bias gradient in the bias buffer, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADB = 512` | Apply Bias gradient to the input matrix B. The bias size corresponds to the number of columns of the matrix D. The reduction happens over the GEMM’s “k” dimension. Store Bias gradient in the bias buffer, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
  
**NOTES:**

5([1](#id26),[2](#id27))
    

GELU (Gaussian Error Linear Unit) is approximated by: \\({0.5}x\left( 1 + \text{tanh}\left( \sqrt{2/\pi}\left( x + {0.044715}x^{3} \right) \right) \right)\\)

Note

Only `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DEFAULT` is supported when `cublasLtBatchMode_t` of any matrix is set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_POINTER_ARRAY` or `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`.


###  3.3.3. cublasLtHandle_t 

The [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t) type is a pointer type to an opaque structure holding the cuBLASLt library context. Use [cublasLtCreate()](#cublasltcreate) to initialize the cuBLASLt library context and return a handle to an opaque structure holding the cuBLASLt library context, and use [cublasLtDestroy()](#cublasltdestroy) to destroy a previously created cuBLASLt library context descriptor and release the resources.

Note

cuBLAS handle ([cublasHandle_t](#cublashandle-t)) encapsulates a cuBLASLt handle. Any valid [cublasHandle_t](#cublashandle-t) can be used in place of [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t) with a simple cast. However, unlike a cuBLAS handle, a cuBLASLt handle is not tied to any particular CUDA context with the exception of CUDA contexts tied to a graphics context (starting from CUDA 12.8). If a cuBLASLt handle is created when the current CUDA context is tied to a graphics context, then cuBLASLt detects the corresponding shared memory limitations and records it in the handle.


###  3.3.4. cublasLtLoggerCallback_t 

[cublasLtLoggerCallback_t](#cublasltloggercallback-t) is a callback function pointer type. A callback function can be set using [cublasLtLoggerSetCallback()](#cublasltloggersetcallback).

**Parameters** :

Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`logLevel` |  | Output | See [cuBLASLt Logging](#cublaslt-logging).  
`functionName` |  | Output | The name of the API that logged this message.  
`message` |  | Output | The log message.


###  3.3.5. cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t) is an opaque structure holding the description of the matrix multiplication algorithm. This structure can be trivially serialized and later restored for use with the same version of cuBLAS library to save on selecting the right configuration again.


###  3.3.6. cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t 

[cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgocapattributes-t) enumerates matrix multiplication algorithm capability attributes that can be retrieved from an initialized [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t) descriptor using [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulalgocapgetattribute).

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_SPLITK_SUPPORT` | Support for split-K. Boolean (0 or 1) to express if split-K implementation is supported. 0 means no support, and supported otherwise. See `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_SPLITK_NUM` of [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigattributes-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_REDUCTION_SCHEME_MASK` | Mask to express the types of reduction schemes supported, see [cublasLtReductionScheme_t](#cublasltreductionscheme-t). If the reduction scheme is not masked out then it is supported. For example: `int isReductionSchemeComputeTypeSupported ? (reductionSchemeMask & CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_COMPUTE_TYPE) == CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_COMPUTE_TYPE ? 1 : 0;` | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_CTA_SWIZZLING_SUPPORT` | Support for CTA-swizzling. Boolean (0 or 1) to express if CTA-swizzling implementation is supported. 0 means no support, and 1 means supported value of 1; other values are reserved. See also `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CTA_SWIZZLING` of [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigattributes-t). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_STRIDED_BATCH_SUPPORT` | Support strided batch. 0 means no support, supported otherwise. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_POINTER_ARRAY_BATCH_SUPPORT` | Support pointer array batch. 0 means no support, supported otherwise. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_POINTER_ARRAY_GROUPED_SUPPORT` | Experimental: Support pointer array grouped. 0 means no support, supported otherwise. See `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED` of [cublasLtBatchMode_t](#cublasltbatchmode-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_OUT_OF_PLACE_RESULT_SUPPORT` | Support results out of place (D != C in D = alpha.A.B + beta.C). 0 means no support, supported otherwise. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_UPLO_SUPPORT` | Syrk (symmetric rank k update)/herk (Hermitian rank k update) support (on top of regular gemm). 0 means no support, supported otherwise. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_TILE_IDS` | The tile ids possible to use. See [cublasLtMatmulTile_t](#cublasltmatmultile-t). If no tile ids are supported then use `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_UNDEFINED`. Use [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulalgocapgetattribute) with `sizeInBytes = 0` to query the actual count. | `uint32_t[]`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_STAGES_IDS` | The stages ids possible to use. See [cublasLtMatmulStages_t](#cublasltmatmulstages-t). If no stages ids are supported then use `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_UNDEFINED`. Use [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulalgocapgetattribute) with `sizeInBytes = 0` to query the actual count. | `uint32_t[]`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_CUSTOM_OPTION_MAX` | Custom option range is from 0 to `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_CUSTOM_OPTION_MAX` (inclusive). See `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CUSTOM_OPTION` of [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigattributes-t) . | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_MATHMODE_IMPL` | Indicates whether the algorithm is using regular compute or tensor operations. 0 means regular compute, 1 means tensor operations. DEPRECATED | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_GAUSSIAN_IMPL` | Indicate whether the algorithm implements the Gaussian optimization of complex matrix multiplication. 0 means regular compute; 1 means Gaussian. See [cublasMath_t](#cublasmath-t). DEPRECATED | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_CUSTOM_MEMORY_ORDER` | Indicates whether the algorithm supports custom (not COL or ROW memory order). 0 means only COL and ROW memory order is allowed, non-zero means that algo might have different requirements. See [cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_POINTER_MODE_MASK` | Bitmask enumerating the pointer modes the algorithm supports. See [cublasLtPointerModeMask_t](#cublasltpointermodemask-t). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_EPILOGUE_MASK` | Bitmask enumerating the kinds of postprocessing algorithm supported in the epilogue. See [cublasLtEpilogue_t](#cublasltepilogue-t). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_LD_NEGATIVE` | Support for negative leading dimension for all of the matrices. 0 means no support, supported otherwise. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS` | Details about algorithm’s implementation that affect it’s numerical behavior. See [cublasLtNumericalImplFlags_t](#cublasltnumericalimplflags-t). | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_MIN_ALIGNMENT_A_BYTES` | Minimum alignment required for A matrix in bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_MIN_ALIGNMENT_B_BYTES` | Minimum alignment required for B matrix in bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_MIN_ALIGNMENT_C_BYTES` | Minimum alignment required for C matrix in bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_MIN_ALIGNMENT_D_BYTES` | Minimum alignment required for D matrix in bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_FLOATING_POINT_EMULATION_SUPPORT` | Support for for floating point emulation. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation). | `int32_t`


###  3.3.7. cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigattributes-t) is an enumerated type that contains the configuration attributes for cuBLASLt matrix multiply algorithms. The configuration attributes are algorithm-specific, and can be set. The attributes configuration of a given algorithm should agree with its capability attributes. Use [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfiggetattribute) and [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigsetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matmul algorithm descriptor.

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_ID` | Read-only attribute. Algorithm index. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetIds()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetids). Set by [cublasLtMatmulAlgoInit()](#cublasltmatmulalgoinit). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_TILE_ID` | Tile id. See [cublasLtMatmulTile_t](#cublasltmatmultile-t). Default: `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_UNDEFINED`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_STAGES_ID` | stages id, see [cublasLtMatmulStages_t](#cublasltmatmulstages-t). Default: `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_UNDEFINED`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_SPLITK_NUM` | Number of K splits. If the number of K splits is greater than one, SPLITK_NUM parts of matrix multiplication will be computed in parallel. The results will be accumulated according to `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_REDUCTION_SCHEME`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_REDUCTION_SCHEME` | Reduction scheme to use when splitK value > 1\. Default: `CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_NONE`. See [cublasLtReductionScheme_t](#cublasltreductionscheme-t). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CTA_SWIZZLING` | Enable/Disable CTA swizzling. Change mapping from CUDA grid coordinates to parts of the matrices. Possible values: 0 and 1; other values reserved. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CUSTOM_OPTION` | Custom option value. Each algorithm can support some custom options that don’t fit the description of the other configuration attributes. See the `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_CUSTOM_OPTION_MAX` of [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgocapattributes-t) for the accepted range for a specific case. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_INNER_SHAPE_ID` | Inner shape ID. Refer to `cublasLtMatmulInnerShape_t.` Default: `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_INNER_SHAPE_UNDEFINED`. | `uint16_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CLUSTER_SHAPE_ID` | Cluster shape ID. Refer to `cublasLtClusterShape_t.` Default: `CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_AUTO`. | `uint16_t`


###  3.3.8. cublasLtMatmulDesc_t   
  
The [cublasLtMatmulDesc_t](#cublasltmatmuldesc-t) is a pointer to an opaque structure holding the description of the matrix multiplication operation [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul). A descriptor can be created by calling [cublasLtMatmulDescCreate()](#cublasltmatmuldesccreate) and destroyed by calling [cublasLtMatmulDescDestroy()](#cublasltmatmuldescdestroy).


###  3.3.9. cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t 

[cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t) is a descriptor structure containing the attributes that define the specifics of the matrix multiply operation. Use [cublasLtMatmulDescGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmuldescgetattribute) and [cublasLtMatmulDescSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmuldescsetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matmul descriptor.

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_COMPUTE_TYPE` | Compute type. Defines the data type used for multiply and accumulate operations, and the accumulator during the matrix multiplication. See [cublasComputeType_t](#cublascomputetype-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SCALE_TYPE` | Scale type. Defines the data type of the scaling factors `alpha` and `beta`. The accumulator value and the value from matrix `C` are typically converted to scale type before final scaling. The value is then converted from scale type to the type of matrix `D` before storing in memory. The default value depends on `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_COMPUTE_TYPE`. See [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_POINTER_MODE` | Specifies `alpha` and `beta` are passed by reference, whether they are scalars on the host or on the device, or device vectors. Default value is: `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` (i.e., on the host). See [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_TRANSA` | Specifies the type of transformation operation that should be performed on matrix A. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_TRANSB` | Specifies the type of transformation operation that should be performed on matrix B. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_TRANSC` | Specifies the type of transformation operation that should be performed on matrix C. Currently only `CUBLAS_OP_N` is supported. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_FILL_MODE` | Indicates whether the lower or upper part of the dense matrix was filled, and consequently should be used by the function. Currently this flag is not supported for bfloat16 or FP8 data types and is not supported on the following GPUs: Hopper, Blackwell. Default value is: `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_FULL`. See [cublasFillMode_t](#cublasfillmode-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE` | Epilogue function. See [cublasLtEpilogue_t](#cublasltepilogue-t). Default value is: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DEFAULT`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER` |  Bias or Bias gradient vector pointer in the device memory.

  * Input vector with length that matches the number of rows of matrix D when one of the following epilogues is used: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS`.
  * Output vector with length that matches the number of rows of matrix D when one of the following epilogues is used: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADA`.
  * Output vector with length that matches the number of columns of matrix D when one of the following epilogues is used: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADB`.

Bias vector elements are the same type as `alpha` and `beta` (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SCALE_TYPE` in this table) when matrix D datatype is `CUDA_R_8I` and same as matrix D datatype otherwise. See the datatypes table under [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) for detailed mapping. Default value is: NULL. | `void *` / `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_BATCH_STRIDE` | Stride (in elements) to the next bias or bias gradient vector for strided batch operations. The default value is 0. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` |  Pointer for epilogue auxiliary buffer.

  * Output vector for ReLu bit-mask in forward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS` epilogue is used.
  * Input vector for ReLu bit-mask in backward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used.
  * Output of GELU input matrix in forward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS` epilogue is used.
  * Input of GELU input matrix for backward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used.

For aux data type, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_DATA_TYPE`. Routines that don’t dereference this pointer, like [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetheuristic) depend on its value to determine expected pointer alignment. Requires setting the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_LD` attribute. | `void *` / `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_LD` |  Leading dimension for epilogue auxiliary buffer.

  * ReLu bit-mask matrix leading dimension in elements (i.e. bits) when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD`, or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used. Must be divisible by 128 and be no less than the number of rows in the output matrix.
  * GELU input matrix leading dimension in elements when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU`, or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD` epilogue used. Must be divisible by 8 and be no less than the number of rows in the output matrix.

| `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_BATCH_STRIDE` |  Batch stride for epilogue auxiliary buffer.

  * ReLu bit-mask matrix batch stride in elements (i.e. bits) when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used. Must be divisible by 128.
  * GELU input matrix batch stride in elements when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU`, or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD` epilogue used. Must be divisible by 8.

Default value: 0. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE` | Batch stride for alpha vector. Used together with `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_HOST` when matrix D’s `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` is greater than 1. If `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_ZERO` is set then `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE` must be set to 0 as this mode doesn’t support batched alpha vector. If cublasLtBatchMode_t of any matrix is not set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_STRIDED` then `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE` must be set to 0. Default value: 0. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SM_COUNT_TARGET` | Number of SMs to target for parallel execution. Optimizes heuristics for execution on a different number of SMs when user expects a concurrent stream to be using some of the device resources. Default value: 0. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` | Device pointer to the scale factor value that converts data in matrix A to the compute data type range. The scaling factor must have the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the scaling factor is assumed to be 1. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_B_SCALE_POINTER` | Equivalent to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` for matrix B. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_C_SCALE_POINTER` | Equivalent to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` for matrix C. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_SCALE_POINTER` | Equivalent to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` for matrix D. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_AMAX_D_POINTER` | Device pointer to the memory location that on completion will be set to the maximum of absolute values in the output matrix. The computed value has the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the maximum absolute value is not computed. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_DATA_TYPE` |  The type of the data that will be stored in `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER`. If unset (or set to the default value of -1), the data type is set to be the output matrix element data type (DType) with some exceptions:

  * ReLu uses a bit-mask.
  * For FP8 kernels with an output type (DType) of `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3`, the data type can be set to a non-default value if:


  1. AType and BType are `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3`.
  2. Bias Type is `CUDA_R_16F`.
  3. CType is `CUDA_R_16BF` or `CUDA_R_16F`
  4. `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE` is set to `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX`

When CType is `CUDA_R_16F`, the data type may be set to `CUDA_R_16F` or `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3`. When CType is `CUDA_R_16BF`, the data type may be set to `CUDA_R_16BF`. Otherwise, the data type should be left unset or set to the default value of -1. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: -1 | `int32_t` ([cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t))  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_SCALE_POINTER` | Device pointer to the scaling factor value to convert results from compute type data range to storage data range in the auxiliary matrix that is set via `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER`. The scaling factor value must have the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the scaling factor is assumed to be 1. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_AMAX_POINTER` | Device pointer to the memory location that on completion will be set to the maximum of absolute values in the buffer that is set via `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER`. The computed value has the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the maximum absolute value is not computed. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_FAST_ACCUM` | Flag for managing FP8 fast accumulation mode. When enabled, on some GPUs problem execution might be faster but at the cost of lower accuracy because intermediate results will not periodically be promoted to a higher precision. Currently this flag has an effect on the following GPUs: Ada, Hopper. Default value: 0 - fast accumulation mode is disabled | `int8_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_DATA_TYPE` |  Type of the bias or bias gradient vector in the device memory. Bias case: see `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS`. If unset (or set to the default value of -1), the bias vector elements are the same type as the elements of the output matrix (Dtype) with the following exceptions:

  * IMMA kernels with computeType=`CUDA_R_32I` and `Ctype=CUDA_R_8I` where the bias vector elements are the same type as alpha, beta (`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SCALE_TYPE=CUDA_R_32F`)
  * For FP8 kernels with an output type of `CUDA_R_32F`, `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` or `CUDA_R_8F_E5M2`. See [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) for more details.

Default value: -1 | `int32_t` ([cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t))  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix A is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_B_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix B is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_C_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix C is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix D is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for the auxiliary matrix is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_OUT_SCALE_POINTER` | Device pointer to the scale factors that are used to convert data in matrix D to the compute data type range. The scaling factor value type is defined by the scaling mode (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_OUT_SCALE_MODE`). If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, scale mode, and compute type combination, or missing for a supported combination, then calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_OUT_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the output matrix scaling factor for matrix D is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EMULATION_DESCRIPTOR` | Emulation descriptor to configure floating point emulation parameters. Default value: NULL. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_BATCH_STRIDE` | Experimental: Batch stride for alpha. Applicable when matrix D’s `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` is greater than 1. Supported values are 0 and 1. Default value is 0. When the value is set to 1, the parameter `alpha` of [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) must contain a device array of pointers of length `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. This setting is currently only supported if cublasLtBatchMode_t of all matrices is set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED` and `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_POINTER_MODE` is set to `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BETA_BATCH_STRIDE` | Experimental: Batch stride for beta. Applicable when matrix D’s `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` is greater than 1. Supported values are 0 and 1. Default value is 0. When the value is set to 1, the parameter `beta` of [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) must contain a device array of pointers of length `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. This setting is currently only supported if cublasLtBatchMode_t of all matrices is set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED` and `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_POINTER_MODE` is set to `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`. | `int64_t`


###  3.3.10. cublasLtMatmulHeuristicResult_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulHeuristicResult_t](#cublasltmatmulheuristicresult-t) is a descriptor that holds the configured matrix multiplication algorithm descriptor and its runtime properties.

Member | Description  
---|---  
[cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t) algo | Must be initialized with [cublasLtMatmulAlgoInit()](#cublasltmatmulalgoinit) if the preference `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PERF_SEARCH_MODE` is set to `CUBLASLT_SEARCH_LIMITED_BY_ALGO_ID`. See [cublasLtMatmulSearch_t](#cublasltmatmulsearch-t).  
`size_t` workspaceSize; | Actual size of workspace memory required.  
[cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) state; | Result status. Other fields are valid only if, after call to [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetheuristic), this member is set to `CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS`.  
`float` wavesCount; | Waves count is a device utilization metric. A `wavesCount` value of 1.0f suggests that when the kernel is launched it will fully occupy the GPU.  
`int` reserved[4]; | Reserved.


###  3.3.11. cublasLtMatmulInnerShape_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulInnerShape_t](#cublasltmatmulinnershape-t) is an enumerated type used to configure various aspects of the internal kernel design. This does not impact the CUDA grid size.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_INNER_SHAPE_UNDEFINED` | Inner shape is undefined.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_INNER_SHAPE_MMA884` | Inner shape is MMA884.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_INNER_SHAPE_MMA1684` | Inner shape is MMA1684.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_INNER_SHAPE_MMA1688` | Inner shape is MMA1688.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_INNER_SHAPE_MMA16816` | Inner shape is MMA16816.


###  3.3.12. cublasLtMatmulPreference_t   
  
The [cublasLtMatmulPreference_t](#cublasltmatmulpreference-t) is a pointer to an opaque structure holding the description of the preferences for [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetheuristic) configuration. Use [cublasLtMatmulPreferenceCreate()](#cublasltmatmulpreferencecreate) to create one instance of the descriptor and [cublasLtMatmulPreferenceDestroy()](#cublasltmatmulpreferencedestroy) to destroy a previously created descriptor and release the resources.


###  3.3.13. cublasLtMatmulPreferenceAttributes_t 

[cublasLtMatmulPreferenceAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulpreferenceattributes-t) is an enumerated type used to apply algorithm search preferences while fine-tuning the heuristic function. Use [cublasLtMatmulPreferenceGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulpreferencegetattribute) and [cublasLtMatmulPreferenceSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulpreferencesetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matmul preference descriptor.

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_SEARCH_MODE` | Search mode. See [cublasLtMatmulSearch_t](#cublasltmatmulsearch-t). Default is `CUBLASLT_SEARCH_BEST_FIT`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MAX_WORKSPACE_BYTES` | Maximum allowed workspace memory. Default is 0 (no workspace memory allowed). | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_REDUCTION_SCHEME_MASK` | Reduction scheme mask. See [cublasLtReductionScheme_t](#cublasltreductionscheme-t). Only algorithm configurations specifying `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_REDUCTION_SCHEME` that is not masked out by this attribute are allowed. For example, a mask value of 0x03 will allow only `INPLACE` and `COMPUTE_TYPE` reduction schemes. Default is `CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_MASK` (i.e., allows all reduction schemes). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_A_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix A (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix A, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_B_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix B (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix B, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_C_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix C (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix C, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_D_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix D (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix D, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MAX_WAVES_COUNT` | Maximum wave count. See [cublasLtMatmulHeuristicResult_t](#cublasltmatmulheuristicresult-t)`::wavesCount.` Selecting a non-zero value will exclude algorithms that report device utilization higher than specified. Default is `0.0f.` | `float`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_IMPL_MASK` | Numerical implementation details mask. See [cublasLtNumericalImplFlags_t](#cublasltnumericalimplflags-t). Filters heuristic result to only include algorithms that use the allowed implementations. default: uint64_t(-1) (allow everything) | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_GROUPED_AVERAGE_REDUCTION_DIM` | Experimental: Average reduction dimension. This is only supported when all matrix descriptors have `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`. Default value is 0. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_GROUPED_DESC_D_AVERAGE_ROWS` | Experimental: Average rows of matrix D. This is only supported when all matrix descriptors have `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`. Default value is 0. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_GROUPED_DESC_D_AVERAGE_COLS` | Experimental: Average columns of matrix D. This is only supported when all matrix descriptors have `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`. Default value is 0. | `uint32_t`


###  3.3.14. cublasLtMatmulSearch_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulSearch_t](#cublasltmatmulsearch-t) is an enumerated type that contains the attributes for heuristics search type.

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_SEARCH_BEST_FIT` | Request heuristics for the best algorithm for the given use case. |   
`CUBLASLT_SEARCH_LIMITED_BY_ALGO_ID` | Request heuristics only for the pre-configured algo id. | 


###  3.3.15. cublasLtMatmulTile_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulTile_t](#cublasltmatmultile-t) is an enumerated type used to set the tile size in `rows x columns.` See also [CUTLASS: Fast Linear Algebra in CUDA C++](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://devblogs.nvidia.com/cutlass-linear-algebra-cuda/&sa=D&ust=1543610995532000&usg=AFQjCNE3tHlNsXDOnOhbVeeH1uXWQFLzLA).

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_UNDEFINED` | Tile size is undefined.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_8x8` | Tile size is 8 rows x 8 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_8x16` | Tile size is 8 rows x 16 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_16x8` | Tile size is 16 rows x 8 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_8x32` | Tile size is 8 rows x 32 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_16x16` | Tile size is 16 rows x 16 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_32x8` | Tile size is 32 rows x 8 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_8x64` | Tile size is 8 rows x 64 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_16x32` | Tile size is 16 rows x 32 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_32x16` | Tile size is 32 rows x 16 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_64x8` | Tile size is 64 rows x 8 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_32x32` | Tile size is 32 rows x 32 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_32x64` | Tile size is 32 rows x 64 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_64x32` | Tile size is 64 rows x 32 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_32x128` | Tile size is 32 rows x 128 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_64x64` | Tile size is 64 rows x 64 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_128x32` | Tile size is 128 rows x 32 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_64x128` | Tile size is 64 rows x 128 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_128x64` | Tile size is 128 rows x 64 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_64x256` | Tile size is 64 rows x 256 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_128x128` | Tile size is 128 rows x 128 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_256x64` | Tile size is 256 rows x 64 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_64x512` | Tile size is 64 rows x 512 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_128x256` | Tile size is 128 rows x 256 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_256x128` | Tile size is 256 rows x 128 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_512x64` | Tile size is 512 rows x 64 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_64x96` | Tile size is 64 rows x 96 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_96x64` | Tile size is 96 rows x 64 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_96x128` | Tile size is 96 rows x 128 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_128x160` | Tile size is 128 rows x 160 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_160x128` | Tile size is 160 rows x 128 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_192x128` | Tile size is 192 rows x 128 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_128x192` | Tile size is 128 rows x 192 columns.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_128x96` | Tile size is 128 rows x 96 columns.


###  3.3.16. cublasLtMatmulStages_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulStages_t](#cublasltmatmulstages-t) is an enumerated type used to configure the size and number of shared memory buffers where input elements are staged. Number of staging buffers defines kernel’s pipeline depth.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_UNDEFINED` | Stage size is undefined.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x1` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x2` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x3` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x4` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x5` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x6` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x1` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x2` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x3` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x4` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x5` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x6` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x1` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x2` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x3` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x4` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x5` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x6` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x1` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x2` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x3` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x4` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x5` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x6` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x10` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 10.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8x4` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x10` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 10.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8x5` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8x3` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8xAUTO` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16xAUTO` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32xAUTO` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64xAUTO` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128xAUTO` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_256xAUTO` | Stage size is 256, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_768xAUTO` | Stage size is 768, number of stages is selected automatically.


###  3.3.17. cublasLtNumericalImplFlags_t   
  
[cublasLtNumericalImplFlags_t](#cublasltnumericalimplflags-t): a set of bit-flags that can be specified to select implementation details that may affect numerical behavior of algorithms.

Flags below can be combined using the bit OR operator “|”.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_FMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on [H,F,D]FMA (fused multiply-add) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_HMMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on HMMA (tensor operation) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_IMMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on IMMA (integer tensor operation) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_DMMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on DMMA (double precision tensor operation) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_TENSOR_OP_MASK` | Mask to filter implementations using any of the above kinds of tensor operations.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_OP_TYPE_MASK` | Mask to filter implementation details about multiply-accumulate instructions used.  
|   
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_16F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using half precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_32F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using single precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_64F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using double precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_32I` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using 32 bit signed integer precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_TYPE_MASK` | Mask to filter implementation details about accumulator used.  
|   
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_16F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using half-precision inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_16BF` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using bfloat16 inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_TF32` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using TF32 inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_32F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using single-precision inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_64F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using double-precision inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_8I` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using 8-bit integer inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_OP_INPUT_TYPE_MASK` | Mask to filter implementation details about accumulator input used.  
|   
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_GAUSSIAN` | Specify that the implementation applies Gauss complexity reduction algorithm to reduce arithmetic complexity of the complex matrix multiplication problem


###  3.3.18. cublasLtMatrixLayout_t   
  
The [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t) is a pointer to an opaque structure holding the description of a matrix layout. Use [cublasLtMatrixLayoutCreate()](#cublasltmatrixlayoutcreate) or [cublasLtGroupedMatrixLayoutCreate()](#cublasltgroupedmatrixlayoutcreate) to create one instance of the descriptor and [cublasLtMatrixLayoutDestroy()](#cublasltmatrixlayoutdestroy) to destroy a previously created descriptor and release the resources.


###  3.3.19. cublasLtMatrixLayoutAttribute_t 

[cublasLtMatrixLayoutAttribute_t](#cublasltmatrixlayoutattribute-t) is a descriptor structure containing the attributes that define the details of the matrix operation. Use [cublasLtMatrixLayoutGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixlayoutgetattribute) and [cublasLtMatrixLayoutSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixlayoutsetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matrix layout descriptor.

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_TYPE` | Specifies the data precision type. See [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ORDER` | Specifies the memory order of the data of the matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL`. See [cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t) . | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS` | Describes the number of rows in the matrix. Normally only values that can be expressed as `int32_t` are supported. | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_COLS` | Describes the number of columns in the matrix. Normally only values that can be expressed as `int32_t` are supported. | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD` |  The leading dimension of the matrix. For `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL` this is the stride (in elements) of matrix column. See also [cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t).

  * Currently only non-negative values are supported.
  * Must be large enough so that matrix memory locations are not overlapping (e.g., greater or equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS` in case of `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL`).

| `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` | Number of matmul operations to perform in the batch. Default value is 1. See also `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_STRIDED_BATCH_SUPPORT`, `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_POINTER_ARRAY_BATCH_SUPPORT` and `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_POINTER_ARRAY_GROUPED_SUPPORT` in [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgocapattributes-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_STRIDED_BATCH_OFFSET` | Stride (in elements) to the next matrix for the strided batch operation. Default value is 0. When matrix type is planar-complex (`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_PLANE_OFFSET` != 0), batch stride is interpreted by [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) in number of real valued sub-elements. E.g. for data of type CUDA_C_16F, offset of 1024B is encoded as a stride of value 512 (since each element of the real and imaginary matrices is a 2B (16bit) floating point type). NOTE: A bug in [cublasLtMatrixTransform()](#cublasltmatrixtransform) causes it to interpret the batch stride for a planar-complex matrix as if it was specified in number of complex elements. Therefore an offset of 1024B must be encoded as stride value 256 when calling [cublasLtMatrixTransform()](#cublasltmatrixtransform) (each complex element is 4B with real and imaginary values 2B each). This behavior is expected to be corrected in the next major cuBLAS version. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_PLANE_OFFSET` | Stride (in bytes) to the imaginary plane for planar-complex layout. Default value is 0, indicating that the layout is regular (real and imaginary parts of complex numbers are interleaved in memory for each element). | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` | The batch mode of the matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_STRIDED`. See [cublasLtBatchMode_t](#cublasltbatchmode-t) . | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_ARRAY` | Experimental: a device pointer to the array of rows in a grouped matrix. The length of the array must be equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. The width of each element in the array is determined by `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_COLS_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH`. Default value is NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_COLS_ARRAY` | Experimental: a device pointer to the array of columns in a grouped matrix. The length of the array must be equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. The width of each element in the array is determined by `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_COLS_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH`. Default value is NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD_ARRAY` | Experimental: a device pointer to the array of leading dimensions in a grouped matrix. The length of the array must be equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. The width of each element in the array is determined by `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH`. Default value is NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_COLS_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH` | Experimental: [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) is an enumerated type used to indicate the width of integers in the rows and columns arrays of a grouped matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_INTEGER_WIDTH_32`. See [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) . | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH` | Experimental: [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) is an enumerated type used to indicate the width of integers in the leading dimensions array of a grouped matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_INTEGER_WIDTH_32`. See [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) . | `int32_t`


###  3.3.20. cublasLtIntegerWidth_t   
  
Experimental: [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) is an enumerated type used to indicate the width of integers in the dimensions arrays of a grouped matrix.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_INTEGER_WIDTH_32` | 32-bit integer width.  
`CUBLASLT_INTEGER_WIDTH_64` | 64-bit integer width.


###  3.3.21. cublasLtMatrixTransformDesc_t   
  
The [cublasLtMatrixTransformDesc_t](#cublasltmatrixtransformdesc-t) is a pointer to an opaque structure holding the description of a matrix transformation operation. Use [cublasLtMatrixTransformDescCreate()](#cublasltmatrixtransformdesccreate) to create one instance of the descriptor and [cublasLtMatrixTransformDescDestroy()](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescdestroy) to destroy a previously created descriptor and release the resources.


###  3.3.22. cublasLtMatrixTransformDescAttributes_t 

[cublasLtMatrixTransformDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescattributes-t) is a descriptor structure containing the attributes that define the specifics of the matrix transform operation. Use [cublasLtMatrixTransformDescGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescgetattribute) and [cublasLtMatrixTransformDescSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescsetattribute) to set the attribute value of a matrix transform descriptor.

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_SCALE_TYPE` | Scale type. Inputs are converted to the scale type for scaling and summation, and results are then converted to the output type to store in the memory. For the supported data types see [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_POINTER_MODE` | Specifies the scalars alpha and beta are passed by reference whether on the host or on the device. Default value is: `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` (i.e., on the host). See [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_TRANSA` | Specifies the type of operation that should be performed on the matrix A. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_TRANSB` | Specifies the type of operation that should be performed on the matrix B. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`


###  3.3.23. cublasLtOrder_t   
  
[cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t) is an enumerated type used to indicate the data ordering of the matrix.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL` | Data is ordered in column-major format. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of next column in memory.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_ROW` | Data is ordered in row-major format. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of next row in memory.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL32` | Data is ordered in column-major ordered tiles of 32 columns. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of next group of 32-columns. For example, if the matrix has 33 columns and 2 rows, then the leading dimension must be at least `32 * 2 = 64`.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL4_4R2_8C` | Data is ordered in column-major ordered tiles of composite tiles with total 32 columns and 8 rows. A tile is composed of interleaved inner tiles of 4 columns within 4 even or odd rows in an alternating pattern. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of the first 32 column x 8 row tile for the next 32-wide group of columns. For example, if the matrix has 33 columns and 1 row, the leading dimension must be at least `(32 * 8) * 1 = 256`.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL32_2R_4R4` | Data is ordered in column-major ordered tiles of composite tiles with total 32 columns ands 32 rows. Element offset within the tile is calculated as `(((row % 8) / 2 * 4 + row / 8) * 2 + row % 2) * 32 + col`. Leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of the first 32 column x 32 row tile for the next 32-wide group of columns. E.g. if matrix has 33 columns and 1 row, then its leading dimensions must be at least `(32 * 32) * 1 = 1024`.


###  3.3.24. cublasLtPointerMode_t   
  
[cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t) is an enumerated type used to set the pointer mode for the scaling factors `alpha` and `beta`.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` = `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST` | Matches `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, and the pointer targets a single value host memory.  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` = `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` | Matches `CUBLAS_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`, and the pointer targets a single value device memory.  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE_VECTOR` = 2 | Pointers target device memory vectors of length equal to the number of rows of matrix D.  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_ZERO` = 3 | `alpha` pointer targets a device memory vector of length equal to the number of rows of matrix D, and `beta` is zero.  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_HOST` = 4 | `alpha` pointer targets a device memory vector of length equal to the number of rows of matrix D, and `beta` is a single value in host memory.  
  
Note

Only pointer modes `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` and `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` are supported when `cublasLtBatchMode_t` of any matrix is set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_POINTER_ARRAY` or `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`.


###  3.3.25. cublasLtPointerModeMask_t 

[cublasLtPointerModeMask_t](#cublasltpointermodemask-t) is an enumerated type used to define and query the pointer mode capability.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_MASK_HOST = 1` | See `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` in [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t).  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_MASK_DEVICE = 2` | See `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` in [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t).  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_MASK_DEVICE_VECTOR = 4` | See `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE_VECTOR` in [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t)  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_MASK_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_ZERO = 8` | See `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_ZERO` in [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t)  
`CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_MASK_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_HOST = 16` | See `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_HOST` in [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t)


###  3.3.26. cublasLtReductionScheme_t   
  
[cublasLtReductionScheme_t](#cublasltreductionscheme-t) is an enumerated type used to specify a reduction scheme for the portions of the dot-product calculated in parallel (i.e., “split - K”).

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_NONE` | Do not apply reduction. The dot-product will be performed in one sequence.  
`CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_INPLACE` | Reduction is performed “in place” using the output buffer, parts are added up in the output data type. Workspace is only used for counters that guarantee sequentiality.  
`CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_COMPUTE_TYPE` | Reduction done out of place in a user-provided workspace. The intermediate results are stored in the compute type in the workspace and reduced in a separate step.  
`CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_OUTPUT_TYPE` | Reduction done out of place in a user-provided workspace. The intermediate results are stored in the output type in the workspace and reduced in a separate step.  
`CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_MASK` | Allows all reduction schemes.


###  3.3.27. cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t   
  
[cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t) is an enumerated type used to specify scaling mode that defines how scaling factor pointers are interpreted.

Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_SCALAR_32F` | Scaling factors are single-precision scalars applied to the whole tensors (this mode is the default for fp8). This is the only value valid for `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_SCALE_MODE` when the D tensor uses a narrow precision data type.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC16_UE4M3` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated scaling factor stored as an 8-bit `CUDA_R_8F_UE4M3` value for each 16-element block in the innermost dimension of the corresponding data tensor.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC32_UE8M0` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated scaling factor stored as an 8-bit `CUDA_R_8F_UE8M0` value for each 32-element block in the innermost dimension of the corresponding data tensor.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_OUTER_VEC_32F` | Scaling factors are vectors of CUDA_R_32F values. This mode is only applicable to matrices A and B, in which case the vectors are expected to have M and N elements respectively, and each (i, j)-th element of product of A and B is multiplied by i-th element of A scale and j-th element of B scale.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated CUDA_R_32F scaling factor for each 128-element block in the innermost dimension of the corresponding data tensor.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated CUDA_R_32F scaling factor for each 128x128-element block in the the corresponding data tensor.


###  3.3.28. cublasLtBatchMode_t   
  
Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_STRIDED` | The matrices of each instance of the batch are located at fixed offsets in number of elements from their locations in the previous instance.  
`CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_POINTER_ARRAY` | The address of the matrix of each instance of the batch are read from device arrays of pointers.  
`CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED` | Experimental: The address of the matrix of each instance of the group are read from device arrays of pointers. Each group can have different columns, rows, and leading dimensions. See [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t) for more details.


###  3.3.29. cublasLtEmulationDesc_t   
  
cublasLtEmulationDesc_t is a pointer to an opaque structure holding the emulation descriptor. Use [cublasLtEmulationDescCreate()](#cublasltemulationdesccreate) to create a new emulation descriptor, and [cublasLtEmulationDescDestroy()](#cublasltemulationdescdestroy) to destroy it and release the resources.


###  3.3.30. cublasLtEmulationDescAttributes_t 

cublasLtEmulationDescAttributes_t is an enumerated type used to configure floating point emulation parameters. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) documentation for more details.

Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_STRATEGY` | Strategy, see [cublasEmulationStrategy_t](#cublasemulationstrategy-t). Defines when to use floating point emulation algorithms. Default: EMULATION_STRATEGY_DEFAULT. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT` | Special values support, see [cudaEmulationSpecialValuesSupport_t](#cudaemulationspecialvaluessupport-t). Defines a bit mask of special cases in floating-point representations that must be supported. Default: EMULATION_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT_DEFAULT. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MANTISSA_CONTROL` | Mantissa control, see [cudaEmulationMantissaControl_t](#cudaemulationmantissacontrol-t). For fixed-point emulation, defines how to compute the number of retained mantissa bits. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) documentation for more details. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MAX_MANTISSA_BIT_COUNT` | For fixed-point emulation only. An int32_t representing the maximum (up to quantization) number of mantissa bits to retain during fixed-point emulation. A default value of 0 allows the library to select a reasonable value based on device properties. Default: 0. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MANTISSA_BIT_OFFSET` | This parameter is for fixed-point emulation with `CUDA_EMULATION_MANTISSA_CONTROL_DYNAMIC` mantissa control (see [cudaEmulationMantissaControl_t](#cudaemulationmantissacontrol-t)). An integer which can be used to bias the number of recommended mantissa bits. Default: 0. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MANTISSA_BIT_COUNT_POINTER` | This parameter is for fixed-point emulation. A device pointer which will contain the number of mantissa bits that were retained. If emulation is not used, the pointer will contain -1. Default: nullptr. | `int32_t *`
