### 3.3.9. cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t


[cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t) is a descriptor structure containing the attributes that define the specifics of the matrix multiply operation. Use [cublasLtMatmulDescGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmuldescgetattribute) and [cublasLtMatmulDescSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmuldescsetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matmul descriptor.


Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_COMPUTE_TYPE` | Compute type. Defines the data type used for multiply and accumulate operations, and the accumulator during the matrix multiplication. See [cublasComputeType_t](#cublascomputetype-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SCALE_TYPE` | Scale type. Defines the data type of the scaling factors `alpha` and `beta`. The accumulator value and the value from matrix `C` are typically converted to scale type before final scaling. The value is then converted from scale type to the type of matrix `D` before storing in memory. The default value depends on `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_COMPUTE_TYPE`. See [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_POINTER_MODE` | Specifies `alpha` and `beta` are passed by reference, whether they are scalars on the host or on the device, or device vectors. Default value is: `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` (i.e., on the host). See [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_TRANSA` | Specifies the type of transformation operation that should be performed on matrix A. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_TRANSB` | Specifies the type of transformation operation that should be performed on matrix B. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_TRANSC` | Specifies the type of transformation operation that should be performed on matrix C. Currently only `CUBLAS_OP_N` is supported. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_FILL_MODE` | Indicates whether the lower or upper part of the dense matrix was filled, and consequently should be used by the function. Currently this flag is not supported for bfloat16 or FP8 data types and is not supported on the following GPUs: Hopper, Blackwell. Default value is: `CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_FULL`. See [cublasFillMode_t](#cublasfillmode-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE` | Epilogue function. See [cublasLtEpilogue_t](#cublasltepilogue-t). Default value is: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DEFAULT`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER` |  Bias or Bias gradient vector pointer in the device memory.

  * Input vector with length that matches the number of rows of matrix D when one of the following epilogues is used: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS`.
  * Output vector with length that matches the number of rows of matrix D when one of the following epilogues is used: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADA`.
  * Output vector with length that matches the number of columns of matrix D when one of the following epilogues is used: `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADB`.

Bias vector elements are the same type as `alpha` and `beta` (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SCALE_TYPE` in this table) when matrix D datatype is `CUDA_R_8I` and same as matrix D datatype otherwise. See the datatypes table under [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) for detailed mapping. Default value is: NULL. | `void *` / `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_BATCH_STRIDE` | Stride (in elements) to the next bias or bias gradient vector for strided batch operations. The default value is 0. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` |  Pointer for epilogue auxiliary buffer.

  * Output vector for ReLu bit-mask in forward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS` epilogue is used.
  * Input vector for ReLu bit-mask in backward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used.
  * Output of GELU input matrix in forward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS` epilogue is used.
  * Input of GELU input matrix for backward pass when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used.

For aux data type, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_DATA_TYPE`. Routines that don’t dereference this pointer, like [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetheuristic) depend on its value to determine expected pointer alignment. Requires setting the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_LD` attribute. | `void *` / `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_LD` |  Leading dimension for epilogue auxiliary buffer.

  * ReLu bit-mask matrix leading dimension in elements (i.e. bits) when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD`, or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used. Must be divisible by 128 and be no less than the number of rows in the output matrix.
  * GELU input matrix leading dimension in elements when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU`, or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD` epilogue used. Must be divisible by 8 and be no less than the number of rows in the output matrix.

| `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_BATCH_STRIDE` |  Batch stride for epilogue auxiliary buffer.

  * ReLu bit-mask matrix batch stride in elements (i.e. bits) when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS` or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD` epilogue is used. Must be divisible by 128.
  * GELU input matrix batch stride in elements when `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS`, `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU`, or `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD` epilogue used. Must be divisible by 8.

Default value: 0. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE` | Batch stride for alpha vector. Used together with `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_HOST` when matrix D’s `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` is greater than 1. If `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_ZERO` is set then `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE` must be set to 0 as this mode doesn’t support batched alpha vector. If cublasLtBatchMode_t of any matrix is not set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_STRIDED` then `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE` must be set to 0. Default value: 0. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SM_COUNT_TARGET` | Number of SMs to target for parallel execution. Optimizes heuristics for execution on a different number of SMs when user expects a concurrent stream to be using some of the device resources. Default value: 0. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` | Device pointer to the scale factor value that converts data in matrix A to the compute data type range. The scaling factor must have the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the scaling factor is assumed to be 1. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_B_SCALE_POINTER` | Equivalent to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` for matrix B. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_C_SCALE_POINTER` | Equivalent to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` for matrix C. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_SCALE_POINTER` | Equivalent to `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_POINTER` for matrix D. Default value: NULL | `const void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_AMAX_D_POINTER` | Device pointer to the memory location that on completion will be set to the maximum of absolute values in the output matrix. The computed value has the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the maximum absolute value is not computed. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_DATA_TYPE` |  The type of the data that will be stored in `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER`. If unset (or set to the default value of -1), the data type is set to be the output matrix element data type (DType) with some exceptions:

  * ReLu uses a bit-mask.
  * For FP8 kernels with an output type (DType) of `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3`, the data type can be set to a non-default value if:


  1. AType and BType are `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3`.
  2. Bias Type is `CUDA_R_16F`.
  3. CType is `CUDA_R_16BF` or `CUDA_R_16F`
  4. `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE` is set to `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX`

When CType is `CUDA_R_16F`, the data type may be set to `CUDA_R_16F` or `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3`. When CType is `CUDA_R_16BF`, the data type may be set to `CUDA_R_16BF`. Otherwise, the data type should be left unset or set to the default value of -1. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: -1 | `int32_t` ([cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t))  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_SCALE_POINTER` | Device pointer to the scaling factor value to convert results from compute type data range to storage data range in the auxiliary matrix that is set via `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER`. The scaling factor value must have the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the scaling factor is assumed to be 1. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_AMAX_POINTER` | Device pointer to the memory location that on completion will be set to the maximum of absolute values in the buffer that is set via `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER`. The computed value has the same type as the compute type. If not specified, or set to NULL, the maximum absolute value is not computed. If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, and compute type combination, calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_FAST_ACCUM` | Flag for managing FP8 fast accumulation mode. When enabled, on some GPUs problem execution might be faster but at the cost of lower accuracy because intermediate results will not periodically be promoted to a higher precision. Currently this flag has an effect on the following GPUs: Ada, Hopper. Default value: 0 - fast accumulation mode is disabled | `int8_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_DATA_TYPE` |  Type of the bias or bias gradient vector in the device memory. Bias case: see `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS`. If unset (or set to the default value of -1), the bias vector elements are the same type as the elements of the output matrix (Dtype) with the following exceptions:

  * IMMA kernels with computeType=`CUDA_R_32I` and `Ctype=CUDA_R_8I` where the bias vector elements are the same type as alpha, beta (`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SCALE_TYPE=CUDA_R_32F`)
  * For FP8 kernels with an output type of `CUDA_R_32F`, `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` or `CUDA_R_8F_E5M2`. See [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) for more details.

Default value: -1 | `int32_t` ([cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t))  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_A_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix A is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_B_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix B is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_C_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix C is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for matrix D is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the matrix scaling factor for the auxiliary matrix is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_OUT_SCALE_POINTER` | Device pointer to the scale factors that are used to convert data in matrix D to the compute data type range. The scaling factor value type is defined by the scaling mode (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_OUT_SCALE_MODE`). If set for an unsupported matrix data, scale, scale mode, and compute type combination, or missing for a supported combination, then calling [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) will return `CUBLAS_INVALID_VALUE`. Default value: NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_OUT_SCALE_MODE` | Scaling mode that defines how the output matrix scaling factor for matrix D is interpreted. Default value: 0. See [cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EMULATION_DESCRIPTOR` | Emulation descriptor to configure floating point emulation parameters. Default value: NULL. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_BATCH_STRIDE` | Experimental: Batch stride for alpha. Applicable when matrix D’s `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` is greater than 1. Supported values are 0 and 1. Default value is 0. When the value is set to 1, the parameter `alpha` of [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) must contain a device array of pointers of length `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. This setting is currently only supported if cublasLtBatchMode_t of all matrices is set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED` and `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_POINTER_MODE` is set to `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BETA_BATCH_STRIDE` | Experimental: Batch stride for beta. Applicable when matrix D’s `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` is greater than 1. Supported values are 0 and 1. Default value is 0. When the value is set to 1, the parameter `beta` of [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) must contain a device array of pointers of length `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. This setting is currently only supported if cublasLtBatchMode_t of all matrices is set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED` and `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_POINTER_MODE` is set to `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`. | `int64_t`
