### 3.3.13. cublasLtMatmulPreferenceAttributes_t


[cublasLtMatmulPreferenceAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulpreferenceattributes-t) is an enumerated type used to apply algorithm search preferences while fine-tuning the heuristic function. Use [cublasLtMatmulPreferenceGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulpreferencegetattribute) and [cublasLtMatmulPreferenceSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulpreferencesetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matmul preference descriptor.


Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_SEARCH_MODE` | Search mode. See [cublasLtMatmulSearch_t](#cublasltmatmulsearch-t). Default is `CUBLASLT_SEARCH_BEST_FIT`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MAX_WORKSPACE_BYTES` | Maximum allowed workspace memory. Default is 0 (no workspace memory allowed). | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_REDUCTION_SCHEME_MASK` | Reduction scheme mask. See [cublasLtReductionScheme_t](#cublasltreductionscheme-t). Only algorithm configurations specifying `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_REDUCTION_SCHEME` that is not masked out by this attribute are allowed. For example, a mask value of 0x03 will allow only `INPLACE` and `COMPUTE_TYPE` reduction schemes. Default is `CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_MASK` (i.e., allows all reduction schemes). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_A_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix A (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix A, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_B_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix B (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix B, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_C_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix C (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix C, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MIN_ALIGNMENT_D_BYTES` | Minimum buffer alignment for matrix D (in bytes). Selecting a smaller value will exclude algorithms that can not work with matrix D, which is not as strictly aligned as the algorithms need. Default is 256 bytes. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_MAX_WAVES_COUNT` | Maximum wave count. See [cublasLtMatmulHeuristicResult_t](#cublasltmatmulheuristicresult-t)`::wavesCount.` Selecting a non-zero value will exclude algorithms that report device utilization higher than specified. Default is `0.0f.` | `float`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_IMPL_MASK` | Numerical implementation details mask. See [cublasLtNumericalImplFlags_t](#cublasltnumericalimplflags-t). Filters heuristic result to only include algorithms that use the allowed implementations. default: uint64_t(-1) (allow everything) | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_GROUPED_AVERAGE_REDUCTION_DIM` | Experimental: Average reduction dimension. This is only supported when all matrix descriptors have `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`. Default value is 0. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_GROUPED_DESC_D_AVERAGE_ROWS` | Experimental: Average rows of matrix D. This is only supported when all matrix descriptors have `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`. Default value is 0. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_PREF_GROUPED_DESC_D_AVERAGE_COLS` | Experimental: Average columns of matrix D. This is only supported when all matrix descriptors have `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`. Default value is 0. | `uint32_t`
