### 3.3.19. cublasLtMatrixLayoutAttribute_t


[cublasLtMatrixLayoutAttribute_t](#cublasltmatrixlayoutattribute-t) is a descriptor structure containing the attributes that define the details of the matrix operation. Use [cublasLtMatrixLayoutGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixlayoutgetattribute) and [cublasLtMatrixLayoutSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixlayoutsetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matrix layout descriptor.


Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_TYPE` | Specifies the data precision type. See [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ORDER` | Specifies the memory order of the data of the matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL`. See [cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t) . | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS` | Describes the number of rows in the matrix. Normally only values that can be expressed as `int32_t` are supported. | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_COLS` | Describes the number of columns in the matrix. Normally only values that can be expressed as `int32_t` are supported. | `uint64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD` |  The leading dimension of the matrix. For `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL` this is the stride (in elements) of matrix column. See also [cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t).

  * Currently only non-negative values are supported.
  * Must be large enough so that matrix memory locations are not overlapping (e.g., greater or equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS` in case of `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL`).

| `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT` | Number of matmul operations to perform in the batch. Default value is 1. See also `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_STRIDED_BATCH_SUPPORT`, `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_POINTER_ARRAY_BATCH_SUPPORT` and `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_POINTER_ARRAY_GROUPED_SUPPORT` in [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgocapattributes-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_STRIDED_BATCH_OFFSET` | Stride (in elements) to the next matrix for the strided batch operation. Default value is 0. When matrix type is planar-complex (`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_PLANE_OFFSET` != 0), batch stride is interpreted by [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) in number of real valued sub-elements. E.g. for data of type CUDA_C_16F, offset of 1024B is encoded as a stride of value 512 (since each element of the real and imaginary matrices is a 2B (16bit) floating point type). NOTE: A bug in [cublasLtMatrixTransform()](#cublasltmatrixtransform) causes it to interpret the batch stride for a planar-complex matrix as if it was specified in number of complex elements. Therefore an offset of 1024B must be encoded as stride value 256 when calling [cublasLtMatrixTransform()](#cublasltmatrixtransform) (each complex element is 4B with real and imaginary values 2B each). This behavior is expected to be corrected in the next major cuBLAS version. | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_PLANE_OFFSET` | Stride (in bytes) to the imaginary plane for planar-complex layout. Default value is 0, indicating that the layout is regular (real and imaginary parts of complex numbers are interleaved in memory for each element). | `int64_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_MODE` | The batch mode of the matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_STRIDED`. See [cublasLtBatchMode_t](#cublasltbatchmode-t) . | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_ARRAY` | Experimental: a device pointer to the array of rows in a grouped matrix. The length of the array must be equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. The width of each element in the array is determined by `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_COLS_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH`. Default value is NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_COLS_ARRAY` | Experimental: a device pointer to the array of columns in a grouped matrix. The length of the array must be equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. The width of each element in the array is determined by `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_COLS_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH`. Default value is NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD_ARRAY` | Experimental: a device pointer to the array of leading dimensions in a grouped matrix. The length of the array must be equal to `CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_BATCH_COUNT`. The width of each element in the array is determined by `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH`. Default value is NULL. | `void *`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_COLS_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH` | Experimental: [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) is an enumerated type used to indicate the width of integers in the rows and columns arrays of a grouped matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_INTEGER_WIDTH_32`. See [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) . | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD_ARRAY_INTEGER_WIDTH` | Experimental: [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) is an enumerated type used to indicate the width of integers in the leading dimensions array of a grouped matrix. Default value is `CUBLASLT_INTEGER_WIDTH_32`. See [cublasLtIntegerWidth_t](#cublasltintegerwidth-t) . | `int32_t`
