### 3.3.30. cublasLtEmulationDescAttributes_t


cublasLtEmulationDescAttributes_t is an enumerated type used to configure floating point emulation parameters. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) documentation for more details.


Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_STRATEGY` | Strategy, see [cublasEmulationStrategy_t](#cublasemulationstrategy-t). Defines when to use floating point emulation algorithms. Default: EMULATION_STRATEGY_DEFAULT. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT` | Special values support, see [cudaEmulationSpecialValuesSupport_t](#cudaemulationspecialvaluessupport-t). Defines a bit mask of special cases in floating-point representations that must be supported. Default: EMULATION_SPECIAL_VALUES_SUPPORT_DEFAULT. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MANTISSA_CONTROL` | Mantissa control, see [cudaEmulationMantissaControl_t](#cudaemulationmantissacontrol-t). For fixed-point emulation, defines how to compute the number of retained mantissa bits. See [Floating Point Emulation](#floating-point-emulation) documentation for more details. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MAX_MANTISSA_BIT_COUNT` | For fixed-point emulation only. An int32_t representing the maximum (up to quantization) number of mantissa bits to retain during fixed-point emulation. A default value of 0 allows the library to select a reasonable value based on device properties. Default: 0. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MANTISSA_BIT_OFFSET` | This parameter is for fixed-point emulation with `CUDA_EMULATION_MANTISSA_CONTROL_DYNAMIC` mantissa control (see [cudaEmulationMantissaControl_t](#cudaemulationmantissacontrol-t)). An integer which can be used to bias the number of recommended mantissa bits. Default: 0. | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_EMULATION_DESC_FIXEDPOINT_MANTISSA_BIT_COUNT_POINTER` | This parameter is for fixed-point emulation. A device pointer which will contain the number of mantissa bits that were retained. If emulation is not used, the pointer will contain -1. Default: nullptr. | `int32_t *`
