### 3.3.27. cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t


[cublasLtMatmulMatrixScale_t](#cublasltmatmulmatrixscale-t) is an enumerated type used to specify scaling mode that defines how scaling factor pointers are interpreted.


Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_SCALAR_32F` | Scaling factors are single-precision scalars applied to the whole tensors (this mode is the default for fp8). This is the only value valid for `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_D_SCALE_MODE` when the D tensor uses a narrow precision data type.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC16_UE4M3` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated scaling factor stored as an 8-bit `CUDA_R_8F_UE4M3` value for each 16-element block in the innermost dimension of the corresponding data tensor.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC32_UE8M0` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated scaling factor stored as an 8-bit `CUDA_R_8F_UE8M0` value for each 32-element block in the innermost dimension of the corresponding data tensor.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_OUTER_VEC_32F` | Scaling factors are vectors of CUDA_R_32F values. This mode is only applicable to matrices A and B, in which case the vectors are expected to have M and N elements respectively, and each (i, j)-th element of product of A and B is multiplied by i-th element of A scale and j-th element of B scale.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated CUDA_R_32F scaling factor for each 128-element block in the innermost dimension of the corresponding data tensor.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F` | Scaling factors are tensors that contain a dedicated CUDA_R_32F scaling factor for each 128x128-element block in the the corresponding data tensor.
