### 3.3.7. cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t


[cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigattributes-t) is an enumerated type that contains the configuration attributes for cuBLASLt matrix multiply algorithms. The configuration attributes are algorithm-specific, and can be set. The attributes configuration of a given algorithm should agree with its capability attributes. Use [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfiggetattribute) and [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigsetattribute) to get and set the attribute value of a matmul algorithm descriptor.


Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_ID` | Read-only attribute. Algorithm index. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetIds()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetids). Set by [cublasLtMatmulAlgoInit()](#cublasltmatmulalgoinit). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_TILE_ID` | Tile id. See [cublasLtMatmulTile_t](#cublasltmatmultile-t). Default: `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_UNDEFINED`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_STAGES_ID` | stages id, see [cublasLtMatmulStages_t](#cublasltmatmulstages-t). Default: `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_UNDEFINED`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_SPLITK_NUM` | Number of K splits. If the number of K splits is greater than one, SPLITK_NUM parts of matrix multiplication will be computed in parallel. The results will be accumulated according to `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_REDUCTION_SCHEME`. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_REDUCTION_SCHEME` | Reduction scheme to use when splitK value > 1\. Default: `CUBLASLT_REDUCTION_SCHEME_NONE`. See [cublasLtReductionScheme_t](#cublasltreductionscheme-t). | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CTA_SWIZZLING` | Enable/Disable CTA swizzling. Change mapping from CUDA grid coordinates to parts of the matrices. Possible values: 0 and 1; other values reserved. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CUSTOM_OPTION` | Custom option value. Each algorithm can support some custom options that don’t fit the description of the other configuration attributes. See the `CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_CUSTOM_OPTION_MAX` of [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgocapattributes-t) for the accepted range for a specific case. | `uint32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_INNER_SHAPE_ID` | Inner shape ID. Refer to `cublasLtMatmulInnerShape_t.` Default: `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_INNER_SHAPE_UNDEFINED`. | `uint16_t`  
`CUBLASLT_ALGO_CONFIG_CLUSTER_SHAPE_ID` | Cluster shape ID. Refer to `cublasLtClusterShape_t.` Default: `CUBLASLT_CLUSTER_SHAPE_AUTO`. | `uint16_t`
