### 3.3.17. cublasLtNumericalImplFlags_t


[cublasLtNumericalImplFlags_t](#cublasltnumericalimplflags-t): a set of bit-flags that can be specified to select implementation details that may affect numerical behavior of algorithms.


Flags below can be combined using the bit OR operator “|”.


Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_FMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on [H,F,D]FMA (fused multiply-add) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_HMMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on HMMA (tensor operation) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_IMMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on IMMA (integer tensor operation) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_DMMA` | Specify that the implementation is based on DMMA (double precision tensor operation) family instructions.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_TENSOR_OP_MASK` | Mask to filter implementations using any of the above kinds of tensor operations.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_OP_TYPE_MASK` | Mask to filter implementation details about multiply-accumulate instructions used.  
|   
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_16F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using half precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_32F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using single precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_64F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using double precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_32I` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product is using 32 bit signed integer precision accumulator.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_ACCUMULATOR_TYPE_MASK` | Mask to filter implementation details about accumulator used.  
|   
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_16F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using half-precision inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_16BF` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using bfloat16 inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_TF32` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using TF32 inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_32F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using single-precision inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_64F` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using double-precision inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_INPUT_8I` | Specify that the implementation’s inner dot product multiply-accumulate instruction is using 8-bit integer inputs.  
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_OP_INPUT_TYPE_MASK` | Mask to filter implementation details about accumulator input used.  
|   
`CUBLASLT_NUMERICAL_IMPL_FLAGS_GAUSSIAN` | Specify that the implementation applies Gauss complexity reduction algorithm to reduce arithmetic complexity of the complex matrix multiplication problem
