### 3.3.2. cublasLtEpilogue_t


The [cublasLtEpilogue_t](#cublasltepilogue-t) is an enum type to set the postprocessing options for the epilogue.


Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DEFAULT = 1` | No special postprocessing, just scale and quantize the results if necessary.  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU = 2` | Apply ReLU point-wise transform to the results (`x := max(x, 0)`).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU | 128` | Apply ReLU point-wise transform to the results (`x := max(x, 0)`). This epilogue mode produces an extra output, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS = 4` | Apply (broadcast) bias from the bias vector. Bias vector length must match matrix D rows, and it must be packed (such as stride between vector elements is 1). Bias vector is broadcast to all columns and added before applying the final postprocessing.  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply bias and then ReLU transform.  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_RELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply bias and then ReLU transform. This epilogue mode produces an extra output, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU = 8 | 128` | Apply ReLu gradient to matmul output. Store ReLu gradient in the output matrix. This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU_BGRAD = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DRELU | 16` | Apply independently ReLu and Bias gradient to matmul output. Store ReLu gradient in the output matrix, and Bias gradient in the bias buffer (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER`). This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU = 32` | Apply GELU point-wise transform to the results (`x := GELU(x)`).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU | 128` | Apply GELU point-wise transform to the results (`x := GELU(x)`). This epilogue mode outputs GELU input as a separate matrix (useful for training). See `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply Bias and then GELU transform [5](#gelu).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX_BIAS = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_GELU_AUX = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BIAS` | Apply Bias and then GELU transform [5](#gelu). This epilogue mode outputs GELU input as a separate matrix (useful for training). See `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU = 64 | 128` | Apply GELU gradient to matmul output. Store GELU gradient in the output matrix. This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU_BGRAD = CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DGELU | 16` | Apply independently GELU and Bias gradient to matmul output. Store GELU gradient in the output matrix, and Bias gradient in the bias buffer (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER`). This epilogue mode requires an extra input, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE_AUX_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADA = 256` | Apply Bias gradient to the input matrix A. The bias size corresponds to the number of rows of the matrix D. The reduction happens over the GEMM’s “k” dimension. Store Bias gradient in the bias buffer, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_BGRADB = 512` | Apply Bias gradient to the input matrix B. The bias size corresponds to the number of columns of the matrix D. The reduction happens over the GEMM’s “k” dimension. Store Bias gradient in the bias buffer, see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_BIAS_POINTER` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).


**NOTES:**


5([1](#id26),[2](#id27))  
    

GELU (Gaussian Error Linear Unit) is approximated by: \\({0.5}x\left( 1 + \text{tanh}\left( \sqrt{2/\pi}\left( x + {0.044715}x^{3} \right) \right) \right)\\)


Note

Only `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DEFAULT` is supported when `cublasLtBatchMode_t` of any matrix is set to `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_POINTER_ARRAY` or `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`.
