### 3.3.16. cublasLtMatmulStages_t


[cublasLtMatmulStages_t](#cublasltmatmulstages-t) is an enumerated type used to configure the size and number of shared memory buffers where input elements are staged. Number of staging buffers defines kernel’s pipeline depth.


Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_UNDEFINED` | Stage size is undefined.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x1` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x2` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x3` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x4` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x5` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x6` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x1` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x2` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x3` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x4` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x5` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x6` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x1` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x2` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x3` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x4` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x5` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64x6` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x1` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 1.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x2` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 2.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x3` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x4` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x5` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128x6` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is 6.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32x10` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is 10.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8x4` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is 4.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16x10` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is 10.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8x5` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is 5.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8x3` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is 3.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_8xAUTO` | Stage size is 8, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_16xAUTO` | Stage size is 16, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_32xAUTO` | Stage size is 32, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_64xAUTO` | Stage size is 64, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_128xAUTO` | Stage size is 128, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_256xAUTO` | Stage size is 256, number of stages is selected automatically.  
`CUBLASLT_MATMUL_STAGES_768xAUTO` | Stage size is 768, number of stages is selected automatically.
