### 3.3.22. cublasLtMatrixTransformDescAttributes_t


[cublasLtMatrixTransformDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescattributes-t) is a descriptor structure containing the attributes that define the specifics of the matrix transform operation. Use [cublasLtMatrixTransformDescGetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescgetattribute) and [cublasLtMatrixTransformDescSetAttribute()](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescsetattribute) to set the attribute value of a matrix transform descriptor.


Value | Description | Data Type  
---|---|---  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_SCALE_TYPE` | Scale type. Inputs are converted to the scale type for scaling and summation, and results are then converted to the output type to store in the memory. For the supported data types see [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_POINTER_MODE` | Specifies the scalars alpha and beta are passed by reference whether on the host or on the device. Default value is: `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` (i.e., on the host). See [cublasLtPointerMode_t](#cublasltpointermode-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_TRANSA` | Specifies the type of operation that should be performed on the matrix A. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`  
`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_TRANSFORM_DESC_TRANSB` | Specifies the type of operation that should be performed on the matrix B. Default value is: `CUBLAS_OP_N` (i.e., non-transpose operation). See [cublasOperation_t](#cublasoperation-t). | `int32_t`
