### 3.3.23. cublasLtOrder_t


[cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t) is an enumerated type used to indicate the data ordering of the matrix.


Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL` | Data is ordered in column-major format. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of next column in memory.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_ROW` | Data is ordered in row-major format. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of next row in memory.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL32` | Data is ordered in column-major ordered tiles of 32 columns. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of next group of 32-columns. For example, if the matrix has 33 columns and 2 rows, then the leading dimension must be at least `32 * 2 = 64`.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL4_4R2_8C` | Data is ordered in column-major ordered tiles of composite tiles with total 32 columns and 8 rows. A tile is composed of interleaved inner tiles of 4 columns within 4 even or odd rows in an alternating pattern. The leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of the first 32 column x 8 row tile for the next 32-wide group of columns. For example, if the matrix has 33 columns and 1 row, the leading dimension must be at least `(32 * 8) * 1 = 256`.  
`CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL32_2R_4R4` | Data is ordered in column-major ordered tiles of composite tiles with total 32 columns ands 32 rows. Element offset within the tile is calculated as `(((row % 8) / 2 * 4 + row / 8) * 2 + row % 2) * 32 + col`. Leading dimension is the stride (in elements) to the beginning of the first 32 column x 32 row tile for the next 32-wide group of columns. E.g. if matrix has 33 columns and 1 row, then its leading dimensions must be at least `(32 * 32) * 1 = 1024`.
