### 3.4.46. cublasLtMatrixTransformDescGetAttribute()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatrixTransformDescGetAttribute(
          cublasLtMatrixTransformDesc_t transformDesc,
          cublasLtMatrixTransformDescAttributes_t attr,
          void *buf,
          size_t sizeInBytes,
          size_t *sizeWritten);
    


This function returns the value of the queried attribute belonging to a previously created matrix transform descriptor.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`transformDesc` |  | Input | Pointer to the previously created structure holding the matrix transform descriptor queried by this function. See [cublasLtMatrixTransformDesc_t](#cublasltmatrixtransformdesc-t).  
`attr` |  | Input | The attribute that will be retrieved by this function. See [cublasLtMatrixTransformDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatrixtransformdescattributes-t).  
`buf` |  | Output | Memory address containing the attribute value retrieved by this function.  
`sizeInBytes` |  | Input | Size of `buf` buffer (in bytes) for verification.  
`sizeWritten` |  | Output | Valid only when the return value is `CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS`. If `sizeInBytes` is non-zero: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes actually written; if `sizeInBytes` is 0: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes needed to write full contents.


**Returns** :


**Return Value** | **Description**  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `sizeInBytes` is zero and `sizeWritten` is NULL, or
  * if `sizeInBytes` is non-zero and `buf` is NULL, or
  * if `sizeInBytes` doesn’t match size of internal storage for the selected attribute

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If attribute’s value was successfully written to user memory.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
