### 3.4.42. cublasLtMatrixTransform()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatrixTransform(
          cublasLtHandle_t lightHandle,
          cublasLtMatrixTransformDesc_t transformDesc,
          const void *alpha,
          const void *A,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Adesc,
          const void *beta,
          const void *B,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Bdesc,
          void *C,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Cdesc,
          cudaStream_t stream);
    


This function computes the matrix transformation operation on the input matrices A and B, to produce the output matrix C, according to the below operation:


`C = alpha*transformation(A) + beta*transformation(B),`


where `A`, `B` are input matrices, and `alpha` and `beta` are input scalars. The transformation operation is defined by the `transformDesc` pointer. This function can be used to change the memory order of data or to scale and shift the values.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`lightHandle` |  | Input | Pointer to the allocated cuBLASLt handle for the cuBLASLt context. See [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t).  
`transformDesc` |  | Input | Pointer to the opaque descriptor holding the matrix transformation operation. See [cublasLtMatrixTransformDesc_t](#cublasltmatrixtransformdesc-t).  
`alpha`, `beta` | Device or host | Input | Pointers to the scalars used in the multiplication.  
`A`, `B` | Device | Input | Pointers to the GPU memory associated with the corresponding descriptors `Adesc` and `Bdesc`.  
`C` | Device | Output | Pointer to the GPU memory associated with the `Cdesc` descriptor.  
`Adesc`, `Bdesc` and `Cdesc` |  | Input |  Handles to the previous created descriptors of the type [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t). `Adesc` or `Bdesc` can be NULL if the corresponding pointer is NULL and the corresponding scalar is zero.  
`stream` | Host | Input | The CUDA stream where all the GPU work will be submitted.


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | If cuBLASLt handle has not been initialized.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | If the parameters are in conflict or in an impossible configuration. For example, when `A` is not NULL, but `Adesc` is NULL.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | If the current implementation on the selected device does not support the configured operation.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | If the configured operation cannot be run using the selected device.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | If CUDA reported an execution error from the device.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If the operation completed successfully.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
