### 3.4.1. cublasLtCreate()


    cublasStatus_t
          cublasLtCreate(cublasLtHandle_t *lighthandle)
    


This function initializes the cuBLASLt library and creates a handle to an opaque structure holding the cuBLASLt library context. It allocates light hardware resources on the host and device, and must be called prior to making any other cuBLASLt library calls.


The cuBLASLt library context is tied to the current CUDA device. To use the library on multiple devices, one cuBLASLt handle must be created for each device. Furthermore, the device must be set as the current before invoking cuBLASLt functions with a handle tied to that device.


See also: [cuBLAS Context](#cublas-context).


**Parameters:**


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`lightHandle` |  | Output | Pointer to the allocated cuBLASLt handle for the created cuBLASLt context.


**Returns:**


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | The allocation completed successfully.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` |  The cuBLASLt library was not initialized. This usually happens:

  * when [cublasLtCreate()](#cublasltcreate) is not called first
  * an error in the CUDA Runtime API called by the cuBLASLt routine, or
  * an error in the hardware setup.

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ALLOC_FAILED` |  Resource allocation failed inside the cuBLASLt library. This is usually caused by a `cudaMalloc()` failure. To correct: prior to the function call, deallocate the previously allocated memory as much as possible.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | `lighthandle` is NULL


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
