### 3.4.18. cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapGetAttribute()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapGetAttribute(
          const cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t *algo,
          cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t attr,
          void *buf,
          size_t sizeInBytes,
          size_t *sizeWritten);
    


This function returns the value of the queried capability attribute for an initialized [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t) descriptor structure. The capability attribute value is retrieved from the enumerated type [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgocapattributes-t).


For example, to get list of supported Tile IDs:


    cublasLtMatmulTile_t tiles[CUBLASLT_MATMUL_TILE_END];
    size_t num_tiles, size_written;
    if (cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapGetAttribute(algo, CUBLASLT_ALGO_CAP_TILE_IDS, tiles, sizeof(tiles), &size_written) == CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS) {
      num_tiles = size_written / sizeof(tiles[0]);}
    


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`algo` |  | Input | Pointer to the previously created opaque structure holding the matrix multiply algorithm descriptor. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t).  
`attr` |  | Input | The capability attribute whose value will be retrieved by this function. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCapAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgocapattributes-t).  
`buf` |  | Output | The attribute value returned by this function.  
`sizeInBytes` |  | Input | Size of `buf` buffer (in bytes) for verification.  
`sizeWritten` |  | Output | Valid only when the return value is `CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS`. If `sizeInBytes` is non-zero: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes actually written; if `sizeInBytes` is 0: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes needed to write full contents.


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `sizeInBytes` is 0 and `sizeWritten` is NULL, or
  * if `sizeInBytes` is non-zero and `buf` is NULL, or
  * if `sizeInBytes` doesn’t match size of internal storage for the selected attribute

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If attribute’s value was successfully written to user memory.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
