### 3.4.22. cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic(
          cublasLtHandle_t lightHandle,
          cublasLtMatmulDesc_t operationDesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Adesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Bdesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Cdesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Ddesc,
          cublasLtMatmulPreference_t preference,
          int requestedAlgoCount,
          cublasLtMatmulHeuristicResult_t heuristicResultsArray[],
          int *returnAlgoCount);
    


This function retrieves the possible algorithms for the matrix multiply operation [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) function with the given input matrices A, B and C, and the output matrix D. The output is placed in `heuristicResultsArray[]` in the order of increasing estimated compute time.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`lightHandle` |  | Input | Pointer to the allocated cuBLASLt handle for the cuBLASLt context. See [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t).  
`operationDesc` |  | Input | Handle to a previously created matrix multiplication descriptor of type [cublasLtMatmulDesc_t](#cublasltmatmuldesc-t).  
`Adesc`, `Bdesc`, `Cdesc`, and `Ddesc` |  | Input | Handles to the previously created matrix layout descriptors of the type [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t).  
`preference` |  | Input | Pointer to the structure holding the heuristic search preferences descriptor. See [cublasLtMatmulPreference_t](#cublasltmatmulpreference-t).  
`requestedAlgoCount` |  | Input | Size of the `heuristicResultsArray` (in elements). This is the requested maximum number of algorithms to return.  
`heuristicResultsArray[]` |  | Output | Array containing the algorithm heuristics and associated runtime characteristics, returned by this function, in the order of increasing estimated compute time.  
`returnAlgoCount` |  | Output | Number of algorithms returned by this function. This is the number of `heuristicResultsArray` elements written.


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | If `requestedAlgoCount` is less or equal to zero.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | If no heuristic function available for current configuration.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If query was successful. Inspect `heuristicResultsArray[0 to (returnAlgoCount -1)].state` for the status of the results.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.


Note  
  
This function may load some kernels using CUDA Driver API which may fail when there is no available GPU memory. Do not allocate the entire VRAM before running `cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetHeuristic()`.
