### 3.4.19. cublasLtMatmulAlgoCheck()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatmulAlgoCheck(
          cublasLtHandle_t lightHandle,
          cublasLtMatmulDesc_t operationDesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Adesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Bdesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Cdesc,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t Ddesc,
          const cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t *algo,
          cublasLtMatmulHeuristicResult_t *result);
    


This function performs the correctness check on the matrix multiply algorithm descriptor for the matrix multiply operation [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) function with the given input matrices A, B and C, and the output matrix D. It checks whether the descriptor is supported on the current device, and returns the result containing the required workspace and the calculated wave count.


Note  
  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` doesn’t fully guarantee that the algo will run. The algo will fail if, for example, the buffers are not correctly aligned. However, if [cublasLtMatmulAlgoCheck()](#cublasltmatmulalgocheck) fails, the algo will not run.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`lightHandle` |  | Input | Pointer to the allocated cuBLASLt handle for the cuBLASLt context. See [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t).  
`operationDesc` |  | Input | Handle to a previously created matrix multiplication descriptor of type [cublasLtMatmulDesc_t](#cublasltmatmuldesc-t).  
`Adesc`, `Bdesc`, `Cdesc`, and `Ddesc` |  | Input | Handles to the previously created matrix layout descriptors of the type [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t).  
`algo` |  | Input | Descriptor which specifies which matrix multiplication algorithm should be used. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t). May point to `result->algo`.  
`result` |  | Output | Pointer to the structure holding the results returned by this function. The results comprise of the required workspace and the calculated wave count. The `algo` field is never updated. See [cublasLtMatmulHeuristicResult_t](#cublasltmatmulheuristicresult-t).


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | If matrix layout descriptors or the operation descriptor do not match the `algo` descriptor.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | If the `algo` configuration or data type combination is not currently supported on the given device.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | If the `algo` configuration cannot be run using the selected device.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If the check was successful.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
