### 3.4.20. cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigGetAttribute()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigGetAttribute(
          const cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t *algo,
          cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t attr,
          void *buf,
          size_t sizeInBytes,
          size_t *sizeWritten);
    


This function returns the value of the queried configuration attribute for an initialized [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t) descriptor. The configuration attribute value is retrieved from the enumerated type [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigattributes-t).


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`algo` |  | Input | Pointer to the previously created opaque structure holding the matrix multiply algorithm descriptor. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t).  
`attr` |  | Input | The configuration attribute whose value will be retrieved by this function. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgoConfigAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmulalgoconfigattributes-t).  
`buf` |  | Output | The attribute value returned by this function.  
`sizeInBytes` |  | Input | Size of `buf` buffer (in bytes) for verification.  
`sizeWritten` |  | Output | Valid only when the return value is `CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS`. If `sizeInBytes` is non-zero: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes actually written; if `sizeInBytes` is 0: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes needed to write full contents.


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | 

  * If `sizeInBytes` is 0 and `sizeWritten` is NULL, or
  * if `sizeInBytes` is non-zero and `buf` is NULL, or
  * if `sizeInBytes` doesn’t match size of internal storage for the selected attribute

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If attribute’s value was successfully written to user memory.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
