### 3.4.52. cublasLtEmulationDescGetAttribute()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtEmulationDescGetAttribute(
          cublasLtEmulationDesc_t emulationDesc,
          cublasLtEmulationDescAttributes_t attr,
          void *buf,
          size_t sizeInBytes,
          size_t *sizeWritten);
    


This function returns the value of the queried attribute belonging to a previously created emulation descriptor.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`emulationDesc` |  | Input | Pointer to the previously created structure holding the emulation descriptor queried by this function. See [cublasLtEmulationDesc_t](#cublasltemulationdesc-t).  
`attr` |  | Input | The attribute that will be retrieved by this function. See [cublasLtEmulationDescAttributes_t](#cublasltemulationdescattributes-t).  
`buf` |  | Output | Memory address containing the attribute value retrieved by this function.  
`sizeInBytes` |  | Input | Size of `buf` buffer (in bytes) for verification.  
`sizeWritten` |  | Output | Valid only when the return value is `CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS`. If `sizeInBytes` is non-zero: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes actually written; If `sizeInBytes` is 0: then `sizeWritten` is the number of bytes needed to write full contents.


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` |  If `sizeInBytes` is zero and `sizeWritten` is NULL, or

  * if `sizeInBytes` is non-zero and `buf` is NULL, or
  * if `sizeInBytes` doesn’t match size of internal storage for the selected attribute

  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If attribute’s value was successfully written to user memory.
