### 3.4.23. cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetIds()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetIds(
          cublasLtHandle_t lightHandle,
          cublasComputeType_t computeType,
          cudaDataType_t scaleType,
          cudaDataType_t Atype,
          cudaDataType_t Btype,
          cudaDataType_t Ctype,
          cudaDataType_t Dtype,
          int requestedAlgoCount,
          int algoIdsArray[],
          int *returnAlgoCount);
    


This function retrieves the IDs of all the matrix multiply algorithms that are valid, and can potentially be run by the [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) function, for given types of the input matrices A, B and C, and of the output matrix D.


Note

The IDs are returned in no particular order. To make sure the best possible algo is contained in the list, make `requestedAlgoCount` large enough to receive the full list. The list is guaranteed to be full if `returnAlgoCount < requestedAlgoCount`.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
lightHandle |  | Input | Pointer to the allocated cuBLASLt handle for the cuBLASLt context. See [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t).  
`computeType`, `scaleType`, `Atype`, `Btype`, `Ctype`, and `Dtype` |  | Inputs | Data types of the computation type, scaling factors and of the operand matrices. See [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t).  
`requestedAlgoCount` |  | Input | Number of algorithms requested. Must be > 0.  
`algoIdsArray[]` |  | Output | Array containing the algorithm IDs returned by this function.  
`returnAlgoCount` |  | Output | Number of algorithms actually returned by this function.


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | If `requestedAlgoCount` is less or equal to zero.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If query was successful. Inspect `returnAlgoCount` to get actual number of IDs available.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
