### 3.4.37. cublasLtGroupedMatrixLayoutCreate()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtGroupedMatrixLayoutCreate( cublasLtMatrixLayout_t *matLayout,
                                               cudaDataType type,
                                               int groupCount,
                                               const void* rows_array,
                                               const void* cols_array,
                                               const void* ld_array);
    


Experimental: This function creates a grouped matrix layout descriptor by allocating the memory needed to hold its opaque structure.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`matLayout` |  | Output | Pointer to the structure holding the matrix layout descriptor created by this function. See [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t).  
`type` |  | Input | Enumerant that specifies the data precision for the matrix layout descriptor this function creates. See [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t).  
`groupCount` |  | Input | Number of groups in the grouped matrix layout descriptor.  
`rows_array` |  | Input | Pointer to a device array of rows of the grouped matrix layout descriptor.  
`cols_array` |  | Input | Pointer to a device array of columns of the grouped matrix layout descriptor.  
`ld_array` |  | Input | Pointer to a device array of leading dimensions of the grouped matrix layout descriptor.


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ALLOC_FAILED` | If the memory could not be allocated.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If the descriptor was created successfully.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
