### 3.4.24. cublasLtMatmulAlgoInit()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatmulAlgoInit(
          cublasLtHandle_t lightHandle,
          cublasComputeType_t computeType,
          cudaDataType_t scaleType,
          cudaDataType_t Atype,
          cudaDataType_t Btype,
          cudaDataType_t Ctype,
          cudaDataType_t Dtype,
          int algoId,
          cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t *algo);
    


This function initializes the matrix multiply algorithm structure for the [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) , for a specified matrix multiply algorithm and input matrices A, B and C, and the output matrix D.


**Parameters** :


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`lightHandle` |  | Input | Pointer to the allocated cuBLASLt handle for the cuBLASLt context. See [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t).  
`computeType` |  | Input | Compute type. See `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_COMPUTE_TYPE` of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t).  
`scaleType` |  | Input | Scale type. See `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_SCALE_TYPE`of [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t). Usually same as computeType.  
`Atype`, `Btype`, `Ctype`, and `Dtype` |  | Input | Datatype precision for the input and output matrices. See [cudaDataType_t](#cudadatatype-t) .  
`algoId` |  | Input | Specifies the algorithm being initialized. Should be a valid `algoId` returned by the [cublasLtMatmulAlgoGetIds()](#cublasltmatmulalgogetids) function.  
`algo` |  | Input | Pointer to the opaque structure to be initialized. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t).


**Returns** :


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | If `algo` is NULL or `algoId` is outside the recognized range.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | If `algoId` is not supported for given combination of data types.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If the structure was successfully initialized.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
