### 3.4.17. cublasLtMatmul()


    cublasStatus_t cublasLtMatmul(
          cublasLtHandle_t               lightHandle,
          cublasLtMatmulDesc_t           computeDesc,
          const void                    *alpha,
          const void                    *A,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t         Adesc,
          const void                    *B,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t         Bdesc,
          const void                    *beta,
          const void                    *C,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t         Cdesc,
          void                          *D,
          cublasLtMatrixLayout_t         Ddesc,
          const cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t    *algo,
          void                          *workspace,
          size_t                         workspaceSizeInBytes,
          cudaStream_t                   stream);
    


This function computes the matrix multiplication of matrices A and B to produce the output matrix D, according to the following operation:


`D = alpha*(A*B) + beta*(C),`


where `A`, `B`, and `C` are input matrices, and `alpha` and `beta` are input scalars.


Note  
  
This function supports both in-place matrix multiplication (`C == D` and `Cdesc == Ddesc`) and out-of-place matrix multiplication (`C != D`, both matrices must have the same data type, number of rows, number of columns, batch size, and memory order). In the out-of-place case, the leading dimension of C can be different from the leading dimension of D. Specifically the leading dimension of C can be 0 to achieve row or column broadcast. If `Cdesc` is omitted, this function assumes it to be equal to `Ddesc`.


The `workspace` pointer must be aligned to at least a multiple of 256 bytes. The recommendations on `workspaceSizeInBytes` are the same as mentioned in the [cublasSetWorkspace()](#cublassetworkspace) section.


**Datatypes Supported:**


[cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) supports the following computeType, scaleType, Atype/Btype, and Ctype. Footnotes can be found at the end of this section.


Table 1. When A, B, C, and D are Regular Column- or Row-major Matrices computeType | scaleType | Atype/Btype | Ctype | Bias Type [6](#epi)  
---|---|---|---|---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_16F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32I` | `CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32I` | Epilogue is not supported.  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_8I` | Epilogue is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32F` | Epilogue is not supported.  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_8I` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm) | Epilogue is not supported.  
`CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm)  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_16BF` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_FAST_TF32` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F_EMULATED_16BFX9` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm) | Epilogue is not supported.  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_PEDANTIC` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_64F_EMULATED_FIXEDPOINT` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` | `CUDA_R_64F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_C_64F` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_64F` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_64F` [7](#herm) | Epilogue is not supported.


To use IMMA kernels, one of the following sets of requirements, with the first being the preferred one, must be met:


  1. Using a regular data ordering:  
  
     * All matrix pointers must be 4-byte aligned. For even better performance, this condition should hold with 16 instead of 4.

     * Leading dimensions of matrices A, B, C must be multiples of 4.

     * Only the “TN” format is supported - A must be transposed and B non-transposed.

     * Pointer mode can be `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE` or `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_HOST`. With the latter mode, the kernels support the `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE` attribute.

     * Dimensions m and k must be multiples of 4.

  2. Using the IMMA-specific data ordering on Ampere (compute capability 8.0) or Turing (compute capability 7.5) (but not Hopper, compute capability 9.0, or later) architecture - `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL32`` for matrices A, C, D, and CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL4_4R2_8C (on Turing or Ampere architecture) or `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL32_2R_4R4` (on Ampere architecture) for matrix B:

     * Leading dimensions of matrices A, B, C must fulfill conditions specific to the memory ordering (see [cublasLtOrder_t](#cublasltorder-t)).

     * Matmul descriptor must specify `CUBLAS_OP_T` on matrix B and `CUBLAS_OP_N` (default) on matrix A and C.

     * If scaleType `CUDA_R_32I` is used, the only supported values for `alpha` and `beta` are `0` or `1`.

     * Pointer mode can be `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST`, `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`, `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE_VECTOR` or `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_ALPHA_DEVICE_VECTOR_BETA_ZERO`. These kernels do not support `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_ALPHA_VECTOR_BATCH_STRIDE`.

     * Only the “NT” format is supported - A must be non-transposed and B transposed.


Table 2. When A, B, C, and D Use Layouts for IMMA computeType | scaleType | Atype/Btype | Ctype | Bias Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I` or `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32I_PEDANTIC` | `CUDA_R_32I` | `CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_32I` | Non-default epilogue not supported.  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_8I` | `CUDA_R_8I` | CUDA_R_32F


To use tensor- or block-scaled FP8 kernels, the following set of requirements must be satisfied:


  * All matrix dimensions must meet the optimal requirements listed in [Tensor Core Usage](#tensor-core-usage) (i.e. pointers and matrix dimension must support 16-byte alignment).  
  
  * Scaling mode must meet the restrictions noted in the [Scaling Mode Support Overview](#scaling-mode-support-overview) table.

  * A must be transposed and B non-transposed (The “TN” format) on Ada (compute capability 8.9), Hopper (compute capability 9.0), and Blackwell GeForce (compute capability 12.x) GPUs.

  * The compute type must be `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F`.

  * The scale type must be `CUDA_R_32F`.


See the table below when using FP8 kernels:


Table 3. When A, B, C, and D Use Layouts for FP8 AType | BType | CType | DType | Bias Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` | `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` [8](#sc) | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)


To use block-scaled FP4 kernels, the following set of requirements must be satisfied:


  * All matrix dimensions must meet the optimal requirements listed in [Tensor Core Usage](#tensor-core-usage) (i.e. pointers and matrix dimension must support 16-byte alignment).  
  
  * Scaling mode must be `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC16_UE4M3`

  * A must be transposed and B non-transposed (The “TN” format)

  * The compute type must be `CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F`.

  * The scale type must be `CUDA_R_32F`.


Table 4. When A, B, C, and D Use Layouts for FP4 AType | BType | CType | DType | Bias Type  
---|---|---|---|---  
`CUDA_R_4F_E2M1` | `CUDA_R_4F_E2M1` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_4F_E2M1` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_4F_E2M1` | `CUDA_R_16F` [6](#epi)  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_16BF` [6](#epi)


When A,B,C,D are planar-complex matrices (`CUBLASLT_MATRIX_LAYOUT_PLANE_OFFSET != 0`, see [cublasLtMatrixLayoutAttribute_t](#cublasltmatrixlayoutattribute-t)) to make use of mixed precision tensor core acceleration, the following set of requirements must be satisfied:


Table 5. When A, B, C, and D are Planar-Complex Matrices computeType | scaleType | Atype/Btype | Ctype  
---|---|---|---  
`CUBLAS_COMPUTE_32F` | `CUDA_C_32F` | `CUDA_C_16F` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_16F` [7](#herm)  
`CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm)  
`CUDA_C_16BF` [7](#herm) | `CUDA_C_16BF` [7](#herm)  
`CUDA_C_32F` [7](#herm)


Experimental: To use [cublasLtMatmul()](#cublasltmatmul) with grouped matrices, the following set of requirements must be satisfied:


  * All matrix dimensions must meet the optimal requirements listed in [Tensor Core Usage](#tensor-core-usage) (i.e. pointers and matrix dimension must support 16-byte alignment).  
  
  * GPU with one of the following compute capabilities: 10.x, 11.0.

  * The batch mode of all matrices must be `CUBLASLT_BATCH_MODE_GROUPED`.

  * The order type of all matrices must be `CUBLASLT_ORDER_COL`.

  * The scale mode of matrices `A`, `B` must be `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_SCALAR_32F`, `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC32_UE8M0` or `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_PER_BATCH_SCALAR_32F` (for FP8 tensors).

  * The scale mode of matrices `C` and `D` must be `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_SCALAR_32F`.

  * The epilogue must be `CUBLASLT_EPILOGUE_DEFAULT`.

  * The pointer mode must be `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST` or `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_DEVICE`.


Table 6. When A, B, C, and D are Regular Column-major Matrices AType | BType | CType | DType  
---|---|---|---  
`CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_8F_E5M2` | `CUDA_R_8F_E4M3` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF` | `CUDA_R_16BF`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`  
`CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F` | `CUDA_R_16F`  
`CUDA_R_32F` | `CUDA_R_32F`


Note  
  
Because the shape information for the matrices is only available on the GPU (see `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_ROWS_ARRAY`, `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_COLS_ARRAY`, and `CUBLASLT_GROUPED_MATRIX_LAYOUT_LD_ARRAY`), the arguments validation is very limited. So it is possible that invalid arguments are not detected which will result in an undefined behavior.


**NOTES:**


6([1](#id28),[2](#id29),[3](#id30),[4](#id31),[5](#id32),[6](#id33),[7](#id34),[8](#id40),[9](#id44),[10](#id48),[11](#id50),[12](#id51),[13](#id53),[14](#id54),[15](#id55),[16](#id57),[17](#id59),[18](#id60),[19](#id62),[20](#id64),[21](#id65),[22](#id66),[23](#id68),[24](#id70),[25](#id71),[26](#id73),[27](#id75),[28](#id76),[29](#id77),[30](#id78),[31](#id79),[32](#id80),[33](#id81))
    

ReLU, dReLu, GELU, dGELU and Bias epilogue modes (see `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_DESC_EPILOGUE` in [cublasLtMatmulDescAttributes_t](#cublasltmatmuldescattributes-t)) are not supported when D matrix memory order is defined as `CUBLASLT_ORDER_ROW`. For best performance when using the bias vector, specify zero beta and set pointer mode to `CUBLASLT_POINTER_MODE_HOST`.

7([1](#id35),[2](#id36),[3](#id37),[4](#id38),[5](#id39),[6](#id41),[7](#id42),[8](#id43),[9](#id45),[10](#id46),[11](#id47),[12](#id82),[13](#id83),[14](#id84),[15](#id85),[16](#id86),[17](#id87))
    

Use of `CUBLAS_ORDER_ROW` together with `CUBLAS_OP_C` (Hermitian operator) is not supported unless all of A, B, C, and D matrices use the `CUBLAS_ORDER_ROW` ordering.

8([1](#id49),[2](#id52),[3](#id56),[4](#id58),[5](#id61),[6](#id63),[7](#id67),[8](#id69),[9](#id72),[10](#id74))
    

FP8 DType is not supported when scaling modes are one of `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_OUTER_VEC_32F`, `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_VEC128_32F`, and `CUBLASLT_MATMUL_MATRIX_SCALE_BLK128x128_32F`.


**Parameters:**


Parameter | Memory | Input / Output | Description  
---|---|---|---  
`lightHandle` |  | Input | Pointer to the allocated cuBLASLt handle for the cuBLASLt context. See [cublasLtHandle_t](#cublaslthandle-t).  
`computeDesc` |  | Input | Handle to a previously created matrix multiplication descriptor of type [cublasLtMatmulDesc_t](#cublasltmatmuldesc-t).  
`alpha`, `beta` | Device or host | Input | Pointers to the scalars used in the multiplication.  
`A`, `B`, and `C` | Device | Input | Pointers to the GPU memory associated with the corresponding descriptors `Adesc`, `Bdesc` and `Cdesc`.  
`Adesc`, `Bdesc` and `Cdesc` |  | Input | Handles to the previous created descriptors of the type [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t).  
`D` | Device | Output | Pointer to the GPU memory associated with the descriptor `Ddesc`.  
`Ddesc` |  | Input | Handle to the previous created descriptor of the type [cublasLtMatrixLayout_t](#cublasltmatrixlayout-t).  
`algo` |  | Input | Handle for matrix multiplication algorithm to be used. See [cublasLtMatmulAlgo_t](#cublasltmatmulalgo-t). When NULL, an implicit heuristics query with default search preferences will be performed to determine actual algorithm to use.  
`workspace` | Device |  | Pointer to the workspace buffer allocated in the GPU memory. Must be 256B aligned (i.e. lowest 8 bits of address must be 0).  
`workspaceSizeInBytes` |  | Input | Size of the workspace.  
`stream` | Host | Input | The CUDA stream where all the GPU work will be submitted.


**Returns:**


Return Value | Description  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | If cuBLASLt handle has not been initialized.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | If the parameters are unexpectedly NULL, in conflict or in an impossible configuration. For example, when `workspaceSizeInBytes` is less than workspace required by the configured algo.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | If the current implementation on the selected device doesn’t support the configured operation.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_ARCH_MISMATCH` | If the configured operation cannot be run using the selected device.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | If CUDA reported an execution error from the device.  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | If the operation completed successfully.


See [cublasStatus_t](#cublasstatus-t) for a complete list of valid return codes.
