### 4.3.8. cublasXtSetPinningMemMode()


    cublasXtSetPinningMemMode(cublasXtHandle_t handle, cublasXtPinningMemMode_t mode)
    


This function allows the user to enable or disable the Pinning Memory mode. When enabled, the matrices passed in subsequent cuBLASXt API calls will be pinned/unpinned using the CUDART routine `cudaHostRegister()` and `cudaHostUnregister()` respectively if the matrices are not already pinned. If a matrix happened to be pinned partially, it will also not be pinned. Pinning the memory improve PCI transfer performance and allows to overlap PCI memory transfer with computation. However pinning/unpinning the memory take some time which might not be amortized. It is advised that the user pins the memory on its own using `cudaMallocHost()` or `cudaHostRegister()` and unpin it when the computation sequence is completed. By default, the Pinning Memory mode is disabled.


Note  
  
The Pinning Memory mode should not be enabled when matrices used for different calls to cuBLASXt API overlap. cuBLASXt determines that a matrix is pinned or not if the first address of that matrix is pinned using `cudaHostGetFlags()`, thus cannot know if the matrix is already partially pinned or not. This is especially true in multi-threaded application where memory could be partially or totally pinned or unpinned while another thread is accessing that memory.


Return Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | the call has been successful  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | the mode value is different from `CUBLASXT_PINNING_DISABLED` and `CUBLASXT_PINNING_ENABLED`
