### 4.4.9. cublasXt<t>herkx()


    cublasStatus_t cublasXtCherkx(cublasXtHandle_t handle,
                                cublasFillMode_t uplo, cublasOperation_t trans,
                                size_t n, size_t k,
                                const cuComplex       *alpha,
                                const cuComplex       *A, size_t lda,
                                const cuComplex       *B, size_t ldb,
                                const float  *beta,
                                cuComplex       *C, size_t ldc)
    cublasStatus_t cublasXtZherkx(cublasXtHandle_t handle,
                                cublasFillMode_t uplo, cublasOperation_t trans,
                                size_t n, size_t k,
                                const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                                const cuDoubleComplex *A, size_t lda,
                                const cuDoubleComplex *B, size_t ldb,
                                const double *beta,
                                cuDoubleComplex *C, size_t ldc)
    


This function performs a variation of the Hermitian rank- \\(k\\) update


\\(C = \alpha\text{op}(A)\text{op}(B)^{H} + \beta C\\)


where \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars, \\(C\\) is a Hermitian matrix stored in lower or upper mode, and \\(A\\) and \\(B\\) are matrices with dimensions \\(\text{op}(A)\\) \\(n \times k\\) and \\(\text{op}(B)\\) \\(n \times k\\) , respectively. Also, for matrix \\(A\\) and \\(B\\)


\\(\text{op(}A\text{) and op(}B\text{)} = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} {A\text{ and }B} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_N}$}} \\\ {A^{H}\text{ and }B^{H}} & {\text{if }\textsf{trans == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_OP\\_C}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


This routine can be used when the matrix B is in such way that the result is guaranteed to be hermitian. A usual example is when the matrix B is a scaled form of the matrix A : this is equivalent to B being the product of the matrix A and a diagonal matrix.


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | handle to the cuBLASXt API context.  
`uplo` |  | input | indicates if matrix `C` lower or upper part is stored, the other Hermitian part is not referenced.  
`trans` |  | input | operation op(`A`) that is non- or (conj.) transpose.  
`n` |  | input | number of rows of matrix op(`A`), op(`B`) and `C`.  
`k` |  | input | number of columns of matrix op(`A`) and op(`B`).  
`alpha` | host | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`A` | host or device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `lda x k` with `lda >= max(1, n)` if `transa == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `lda x n` with `lda >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`lda` |  | input | leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `A`.  
`B` | host or device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x k` with `ldb >= max(1, n)` if `transb == CUBLAS_OP_N` and `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, k)` otherwise.  
`ldb` |  | input | leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host | input | real scalar used for multiplication, if `beta == 0` then `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | host or device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldc x n`, with `ldc >= max(1, n)`. The imaginary parts of the diagonal elements are assumed and set to zero.  
`ldc` |  | input | leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `C`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | the operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | the library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | the parameters `n < 0` or `k < 0`  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | the function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[cherk()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/cherk.f), [zherk()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zherk.f) and


[cher2k()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/cher2k.f), [zher2k()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zher2k.f)
