### 4.4.12. cublasXt<t>spmm()


    cublasStatus_t cublasXtSspmm( cublasXtHandle_t handle,
                                    cublasSideMode_t side,
                                    cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                                    size_t m,
                                    size_t n,
                                    const float *alpha,
                                    const float *AP,
                                    const float *B,
                                    size_t ldb,
                                    const float *beta,
                                    float *C,
                                    size_t ldc );
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasXtDspmm( cublasXtHandle_t handle,
                                    cublasSideMode_t side,
                                    cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                                    size_t m,
                                    size_t n,
                                    const double *alpha,
                                    const double *AP,
                                    const double *B,
                                    size_t ldb,
                                    const double *beta,
                                    double *C,
                                    size_t ldc );
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasXtCspmm( cublasXtHandle_t handle,
                                    cublasSideMode_t side,
                                    cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                                    size_t m,
                                    size_t n,
                                    const cuComplex *alpha,
                                    const cuComplex *AP,
                                    const cuComplex *B,
                                    size_t ldb,
                                    const cuComplex *beta,
                                    cuComplex *C,
                                    size_t ldc );
    
    cublasStatus_t cublasXtZspmm( cublasXtHandle_t handle,
                                    cublasSideMode_t side,
                                    cublasFillMode_t uplo,
                                    size_t m,
                                    size_t n,
                                    const cuDoubleComplex *alpha,
                                    const cuDoubleComplex *AP,
                                    const cuDoubleComplex *B,
                                    size_t ldb,
                                    const cuDoubleComplex *beta,
                                    cuDoubleComplex *C,
                                    size_t ldc );
    


This function performs the symmetric packed matrix-matrix multiplication


\\(C = \left\\{ \begin{matrix} {\alpha AB + \beta C} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_LEFT}$}} \\\ {\alpha BA + \beta C} & {\text{if }\textsf{side == $\mathrm{CUBLAS\\_SIDE\\_RIGHT}$}} \\\ \end{matrix} \right.\\)


where \\(A\\) is a \\(n \times n\\) symmetric matrix stored in packed format, \\(B\\) and \\(C\\) are \\(m \times n\\) matrices, and \\(\alpha\\) and \\(\beta\\) are scalars.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_LOWER` then the elements in the lower triangular part of the symmetric matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+((2*n-j+1)*j)/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \geq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


If `uplo == CUBLAS_FILL_MODE_UPPER` then the elements in the upper triangular part of the symmetric matrix \\(A\\) are packed together column by column without gaps, so that the element \\(A(i,j)\\) is stored in the memory location `AP[i+(j*(j+1))/2]` for \\(j = 1,\ldots,n\\) and \\(i \leq j\\) . Consequently, the packed format requires only \\(\frac{n(n + 1)}{2}\\) elements for storage.


Note  
  
The packed matrix AP must be located on the host or managed memory whereas the other matrices can be located on the host or any GPU device


Param. | Memory | In/out | Meaning  
---|---|---|---  
`handle` |  | input | handle to the cuBLASXt API context.  
`side` |  | input | indicates if matrix `A` is on the left or right of `B`.  
`uplo` |  | input | indicates if matrix `A` lower or upper part is stored, the other symmetric part is not referenced and is inferred from the stored elements.  
`m` |  | input | number of rows of matrix `A` and `B`, with matrix `A` sized accordingly.  
`n` |  | input | number of columns of matrix `C` and `A`, with matrix `A` sized accordingly.  
`alpha` | host | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication.  
`AP` | host | input | <_type_ > array with \\(A\\) stored in packed format.  
`B` | host or device | input | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldb x n` with `ldb >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldb` |  | input | leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `B`.  
`beta` | host | input | <_type_ > scalar used for multiplication, if `beta == 0` then `C` does not have to be a valid input.  
`C` | host or device | in/out | <_type_ > array of dimension `ldc x n` with `ldc >= max(1, m)`.  
`ldc` |  | input | leading dimension of two-dimensional array used to store matrix `C`.


The possible error values returned by this function and their meanings are listed below.


Error Value | Meaning  
---|---  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_SUCCESS` | the operation completed successfully  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_INITIALIZED` | the library was not initialized  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_INVALID_VALUE` | the parameters `m < 0` or `n < 0`  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED` | the matrix AP is located on a GPU device  
`CUBLAS_STATUS_EXECUTION_FAILED` | the function failed to launch on the GPU


For references please refer to NETLIB documentation:


[ssymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/ssymm.f), [dsymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/dsymm.f), [csymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/csymm.f), [zsymm()](http://www.netlib.org/blas/zsymm.f)
